German cider restaurant becomes drive-thru to stay open during coronavirus pandemic .
2020-04-05 23:41:07 +00:00 .
Fox News medical contributor Dr. Marc Siegel weighs in on flattening the curve of COVID-19 on ‘ Fox and Friends . ’
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Thomas Metzmacher had to get creative to keep his business open in Germany during the coronavirus pandemic .
After toying with the idea of a delivery service , he instead turned his half - timbered restaurant in Frankfurt into a makeshift drive - thru .
“ The restaurant had to close , nobody was allowed to sit inside anymore , so it was either give up or fight , ” he said .
“ I decided to fight . ”
Metzmacher was faced with the prospect of having to shut down his traditional German restaurant specializing in a traditional tart hard cider because of German regulations prohibiting groups of people from gathering amid the pandemic .
Thomas Metzmacher made some changes to his apple cider restaurant , Zum Lahmen Esel , in Frankfurt , Germany .
( AP Photo / Michael Probst )
Now he has been serving up schnitzel , fried potatoes and other German favorites — of course , the tasty Aeppelwoi cider — to customers waiting in a long line of cars .
CLICK
HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
Late last year — long before most people had heard of the new coronavirus now sweeping the globe — scientists in Germany jumped into action to develop a test for the virus that originated in China .
They had one by mid - January — and labs around the country were ready to start using it just weeks later , around the same time that Europe ’s most populous country registered its first case .
“ It was clear that if the epidemic swept over here from China , then we had to start testing , ” said Hendrik Borucki , a spokesman for Bioscientia Healthcare , which has operated 19 labs in Germany .
That quick work stood in stark contrast to delays and missteps in some other countries .
“ The reason why we in Germany have so few deaths at the moment compared to the number of infected can be largely explained by the fact that we are doing an extremely large number of lab diagnoses , ” said virologist Dr. Christian Drosten , whose team developed the first test for the new virus at Berlin ’s Charité hospital — established over 300 years ago to treat plague victims .
A can with apple cider slides down to car from a window of the apple cider restaurant ' Zum Lahmen Esel ' in Frankfurt , Germany , Friday , April 3 , 2020.(AP Photo / Michael Probst )
Metzmacher ’s Zum Lahmen Esel restaurant , which has been in operation since 1807 , meanwhile , normally would seat 200 people inside and another 200 in an outdoor garden .
Now , cars have driven up to a small booth in front of the restaurant , where one of Metzmacher ’s 36 employees took each order before pushing a plastic tub down a makeshift slide to the car ’s window to take payment at a safe distance .
Driving ahead , customers would get their orders in another tub pushed to their window .
“ It ’s going great , ” Metzmacher said .
“ My regulars are supporting me , they ’re really happy I ’m open . ”
CORONAVIRUS : WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
Without people sticking around for a few more of the signature ciders , profit margins have been low -- but Metzmacher said it ’s better than nothing .
“ At least we ’re carrying on and we ’re continuing to work , ” he said .
The Associated Press contributed to this report .

Biden says Democrats may have to hold 'virtual convention' due to coronavirus .
2020-04-05 14:40:32 +00:00 .
Where and why : Locations of the Democratic and Republican conventions Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Former Vice President Joe Biden said that this year ’s Democratic National Convention might need to be a virtual one due to the coronavirus pandemic .
Biden , the Democratic presidential front - runner , said that while hosting a convention is necessary , it might not be possible or wise to have thousands of people traveling to one place during the outbreak .
“ We ’re going to have to do a convention , ” Biden said during an interview on ABC ’s “ This Week . ”
“ We may have to do a virtual convention .
I know I think we should be thinking about that right now . ”
He added : “ What we do between now and then is going to dictate a lot of that as well . ”
TRUMP WARNS OF ROUGH WEEK AHEAD : ' THERE WILL BE DEATH '
The Democrats already announced last week that they are pushing back their convention from a July 13 start date to August 17 because of fears that the country will still be on lockdown from the coronavirus .
“ In our current climate of uncertainty , we believe the smartest approach is to take additional time to monitor how this situation unfolds so we can best position our party for a safe and successful convention , ” Joe Solmonese , CEO of the Democratic National Convention Committee , said in a statement .
“ During this critical time , when the scope and scale of the pandemic and its impact remain unknown , we will continue to monitor the situation and follow the advice of health care professionals and emergency responders . ”
Biden ’s comments Sunday on ABC were not totally unexpected , as the former vice president has expressed his hesitancy about holding the convention in numerous interviews .
Biden said in an interview on MSNBC on Tuesday night that “ it ’s hard to envision ” thousands of Democratic convention delegates , officials , media and other spectators packed inside an arena this summer .
But Biden added that “ we ought to be able to do what we were able to do in the middle of the Civil War , all the way through to World War II : have Democratic and Republican conventions , and primaries , and elections , and still have public safety .
And we 're able to do both .
But the fact is that it may have to be different . "
Biden and his fellow candidate , Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont , have been forced by the pandemic to do virtual rallies and campaign events from their homes in Delaware and Vermont , respectively .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The coronavirus outbreak , which has spread globally , has forced most Americans to huddle in their homes in hopes of preventing the spread of the virus , which causes the deadly COVID-19 disease .
Those venturing outside are urged to practice social distancing – keeping a minimum of 6 feet apart – and all large gatherings have been scrapped .
The Democratic convention will now be held the week before the Republican National Convention , which is scheduled to take place Aug. 24 - 27 in Charlotte , N.C.
Moving the Democratic convention to August -- which was under consideration for weeks by top Democratic Party officials -- became easier to do after the International Olympic Committee last week postponed the 2020 Summer Games in Tokyo .
They originally were scheduled for July 24 - Aug. 9 .
Fox News ’ Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report .

Alabama joins states under coronavirus stay-at-home order .
2020-04-05 05:09:26 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Beginning 5 p.m. Saturday , Alabama joined the list of states where residents were under a stay - at - home order in response to the coronavirus outbreak .
Gov. Kay Ivey and state Health Officer Dr. Scott Harris announced that the order would be in place until April 30 , with a determination before then on whether the order would be extended past that date , AL.com reported .
“ We all have a duty to take this seriously , ” the governor wrote in a Twitter message .
“ Wash your hands frequently , disinfect commonly used items often practice social distancing . ”
FLORIDA 'S DESANTIS ISSUES STATEWIDE STAY - AT - HOME ORDER TO CURB CORONAVIRUS
Ivey warned that that the state would likely see sharp rises in confirmed cases and deaths in the weeks ahead .
“ Folks , April stands to be very tough , and potentially very deadly , ” the governor said , according to AL.com .
“ You need to understand we are past urging people to stay at home .
It is now the law . ”
As of late Saturday , Alabama had more than 1,600 confirmed cases of coronavirus – also known as COVID-19 – and had seen at least 26 deaths , according to the state ’s Department of Public Health , division of infectious diseases and outbreaks .
Ivey , a Republican , had faced some criticism in the state for not enacting a stay - at - home order sooner .
On Friday she addressed those concerns .
" I tried to find the right balance , something that was measured without overreacting that looked after people ’s health without choking out the life from commerce , " she said at a news conference Friday , according to the Advertiser .
Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey speaks to the media in Montgomery , Ala. , Nov. 17 , 2017 .
( Associated Press )
U.S. Sen. Doug Jones , a Democrat , argued that slowing the spread of the virus through a stay - at - home order would ultimately prove to be the best way to revive the economy .
“ We help this economy by staying home , ” Jones said Thursday , according to the Advertiser .
“ By staying home , we can stop the spread , and we can get this economy rolling soon . ”
On Friday , Ivey said the continued growth in cases in the state prompted her to finally issue the order .
CLICK
HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE " Yesterday [ Thursday ] the number of new cases jumped 160 , " she said at the news conference .
“ That was a big jump .
Also EMA metrics that they got from the cell phone data , and it shows people are not paying attention to the orders we ’ve asked them to abide by . ”
EMA refers to Alabama ’s Emergency Management Agency .
Chambers County in eastern Alabama was especially hard hit , with authorities suspecting that local church gatherings may have helped spread the virus , the Advertiser reported .

Democratic primaries pushed back in four states amid coronavirus crisis .
2020-04-04 17:50:34 +00:00 .
Mike Tobin reports from Chicago on why the state decided not to postpone voting .
Voters in four states were due to cast their ballots in Democratic presidential primaries on Saturday -- but those states have now postponed or extended voting in those contests due to the coronavirus crisis .
Wyoming , Alaska and Hawaii have canceled in - person voting because of the pandemic that has closed down most of daily life across the country .
Instead the contests will be voted on 100 percent by mail .
Officials have also pushed back the contests to allow voters more time to get their ballots in and for them to be counted .
Louisiana was also due to hold its primary on Saturday , but the state has postponed the election until June 20 .
CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC : WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
Hawaii has already sent out two rounds of mailed ballots , and this week sent out a third .
The deadline to register was also pushed back .
Democrats there wo n’t have iprimary results until May.
Meanwhile , in Alaska , the Democratic Party is allowing ballots to be downloaded from its website and has pushed back the date a mailed - in ballot needed to be postmarked from March 24 to April 10 .
In Wyoming , the primary will also be mail - in only and people who registered too late to receive a ballot will be mailed one .
The party also moved back the date by which ballots must be received from April 4 to April 17 .
Former Vice President Joe Biden currently holds a commanding lead in the primary , but Sen. Bernie Sanders , I - Vt . , has refused to throw in the towel , arguing that there is still a narrow path to victory for him .
The delays are one in a number of moves nationwide by Democratic Party officials , who have moved quickly to adapt their primary season to the unique challenge of the pandemic .
DEMOCRACY 2020 DIGEST :
STATES EMBRACE MAIL - IN VOTING AS CORONAVIRUS UPENDS ELECTIONS
The Democratic National Committee announced this week that its convention , scheduled for mid - July will be moved to August .
In Wisconsin , Gov. Tony Evers called for a special session of the state legislature Saturday to overhaul Tuesday 's primary and allow an all - mail election .
He is also calling for absentee ballots to be sent to every registered voter and the deadline for ballots to be sent back extended to May 26 .
WISCONSIN GOVERNOR , IN SURPRISE MOVE , CALLS SPECIAL SESSIONS TO HALT IN - PERSON VOTING IN LOOMING PRIMARY
The Democratic governor warned that in - person voting at polling stations would be “ a very unnecessary public health risk ” during the coronavirus crisis .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
“ I ca n’t move this election or change the rules on my own .
My hands are tied , ” Evers pleaded in a video released on social media .
“ I was hopeful that the courts would intervene and help , and they did in fact implement some but not all of the common - sense changes I ’ve been advocating for . ”
On March 17 , Florida , Illinois and Arizona were the last states to hold presidential primaries .
Since then , 15 states and Puerto Rico – which were scheduled to hold their primaries and caucuses in late March , April or May – postponed their contests or switched them to nearly entirely by mail or absentee ballot .
The Associated Press contributed to this report .

Coronavirus patients delivered to hospital ship Comfort in New York by mistake: US officials .
2020-04-04 16:24:19 +00:00 .
U.S. Naval hospital ship Comfort begins accepting non - coronavirus patients in New York City ; USNS Comfort military 's treatment facility Commanding Officer , Captain Patrick Amersbach weighs in .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
EXCLUSIVE - Multiple patients infected with coronavirus were transferred to the hospital ship Comfort from the Javits Center in New York by mistake , three U.S. officials tell Fox News .
The number of Covid-19 patients brought on board the hospital ship was estimated to be “ less than five , ” one official said .
This information has not been previously reported .
CLICK
HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
The patients were transferred sometime Friday , according to the officials .
At the time the patients were transferred to the hospital ship Comfort , the initial screening did not indicate they were positive , officials said .
The hospital ship is located on Pier 90 on Manhattan ’s west side and arrived in New York Monday .
The vessel has a “ couple dozen ” patients on board right now , according to chief Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Hoffman .
Part of the protocol before receiving patients onboard Comfort is for a coronavirus test to be performed .
The swab test came back hours later , but not before the patients had spent a night onboard the vessel , which is only supposed to treat trauma patients , not Covid-19 positive patients .
CUOMO DENIES HE’LL ‘ SEIZE ’ VENTILATORS FROM UPSTATE FOR NYC , SAYS ORDER PROMOTES ‘ SHARING ’
The Covid-19 positive patients have already been delivered back to the Javits center Saturday morning to continue their treatment , one official said .
The Javits Center has been transformed into a 3,000 bed makeshift hospital by the Army Corps of Engineers .
The officials called the risk to the hospital ship ’s crew “ low , ” because of the protocols were already in place .
“ We planned for this to happen , ” one official said .
Another official pointed out this was why the hospital ship did not want to fill all 1,000 beds on board too quickly because the risk of the virus coming on board is so great .
The Comfort crew is scrubbing the area where the patients were housed on board .
All U.S. Navy medical personnel were wearing complete PPE ( personal protective equipment ) , the officials added .
“ We have infectious disease specialists on board as well , ” another official said .
Right now both hospital ships Comfort in New York and Mercy in Los Angeles do not take Covid-19 patients , but top Pentagon leaders are “ reassessing ” that policy , the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , Army Gen. Mark Milley , told Fox News ’ Harris Faulkner Friday afternoon .
CLICK
HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
That decision is “ not imminent , ” a Pentagon spokesman later said in a press conference Friday .

Disney announces new dates for 'Black Widow,' 'Mulan,' and more .
2020-04-03 20:31:11 +00:00 .
Fandango Managing Editor Erik Davis lists the top films audiences are watching at home .
Disney announced on Friday its new release schedule for all the upcoming movies that were shifted around due to the coronavirus outbreak .
“ Black Widow , ” the Marvel entry starring Scarlett Johansson , had been set to kick off the summer movie season .
Instead , Disney said it will now open Nov. 6 .
Such delays have unique ramifications for Marvel movies because of their interconnection .
With “ Black Widow ” on the move , that means a domino effect , pushing most all upcoming Marvel releases back at least three months .
' TOP GUN : MAVERICK ' RELEASE DATE DELAYED UNTIL DECEMBER
“ Black Widow ” took the release date of “ The Eternals , ” which now moves to February 21 next year .
“ Shang - Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings " departs that February date for May 7 , 2021 .
“ Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness ” shifts from next May to Nov. 5 , 2021 .
And “ Thor : Love and Thunder ” is pushed three months , to Feb. 18 , 2022 .
This image released by Disney / Marvel Studios ' shows Scarlett Johansson in a scene from " Black Widow . " .
( Marvel Studios / Disney via AP )
Disney is n't abandoning the summer completely .
“ Mulan , ” which been scheduled for March and already had its red carpet premiere , will now open July 24 .
That release date , of course , is subject to movie theaters being reopened by then and the pandemic subsiding .
MOVIES BEING RELEASED EARLY ON DEMAND AMID CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK
While Disney shifted nearly all of its big - budget movies , it 's going to send one to its streaming service .
The Kenneth Branagh - directed science fiction adventure adaptation “ Artemis Fowl " will go to Disney Plus instead of opening in theaters .
The movie had originally been slate for release last August but had been rescheduled for May of this year .
With the exception of Universal 's “ Trolls World Tour , ” the major studios have chosen to delay their top releases rather than push them to digital release and sacrifice box - office revenue .
Chinese actress Liu Yifei is playing Mulan in Disney 's upcoming live - action movie .
( Stephen Tilley / Disney Enterprises , Inc. )
TV SHOWS , MOVIES AFFECTED BY CORONAVIRUS : FROM ' THE BATMAN ' TO ' STRANGER THINGS ' “ Jungle Cruise , ” with Dwayne Johnson and Emily Blunt , is being pushed back a full year to July 30 , 2021 .
The release of the fifth “ Indiana Jones ” movie , which Steven Spielberg last month departed as director with James Mangold replacing him , is also being delayed a full year , to July 2022 .
Harrison Ford will be 80 years old by then .
Wes Anderson 's “ The French Dispatch ” is also postponed from July to Oct. 16 .
The Associated Press contributed to this report .

NFL RedZone will re-air entire 2019 season to help fill coronavirus sports void .
2020-04-03 19:41:11 +00:00 .
Most of the NFL ’s best free agents of landed deals , but there are still plenty of intriguing options .
Here ’s seven of the best available as of Monday .
The coronavirus pandemic has rocked the world of sports , with all major live events canceled or postponed for the foreseeable future , but the NFL RedZone network is helping fill the void .
NFL ’s RedZone network jumps around from game to game each Sunday during football season , cutting into whichever FOX and CBS telecasts has the most exciting action at the moment .
It ’s live for roughly seven hours each week and airs every touchdown from every game .
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS SEND PLANE TO CHINA , GET 1.2 MILLION N95 MASKS FOR MASSACHUSETTS : REPORTS
The NFL announced on Friday that the entire 2019 season of RedZone action will be re - aired in chronological order for 17 - straight days starting on Monday .
Week 1 of the most recent NFL season will begin on April 6 , with the final weekend of action airing on April 22 .
The NFL also announced that NFL Game Pass would be complimentary through May 31 , allowing fans to watch select games from 2009 - 2019 for free on NFL.com .
While Major League Baseball , the NBA , NHL and NCAA sports came to a sudden halt because of the coronavirus pandemic , the NFL has managed to keep provide a bit of relief for sports fans .
The league conducted its offseason free agency , which saw legendary quarterback Tom Brady jump from the New England Patriots to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers , among other significant roster moves .
The 2020 NFL Draft will proceed as scheduled from April 23 to April 25 despite the coronavirus outbreak , commissioner Roger Goodell said in a memo to the league ’s 32 teams last month .
Goodell said the NFL ’s Management Council Executive Committee was " unanimous and unequivocal that the draft should go forward as scheduled . ”
The NFL has already canceled its planned draft festivities in Las Vegas and will proceed with an altered format to protect participants from risks related to the outbreak .
CLICK
HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM “ Everyone recognizes that public health conditions are highly uncertain and there is no assurance that we can select a different date and be confident that conditions will be significantly more favorable than they are today , ” Goodell wrote .
“ I also believe that the Draft can serve a very positive purpose for our clubs , our fans , and the country at large , and many of you have agreed . ”
As fans gear up for the 2020 NFL Draft , they can now re - watch the 2019 season on NFL RedZone .
Fox Business Network ’s Thomas Barrabi contributed to this report .

NJ family pleads for experimental drug for man on life support .
2020-04-03 19:20:10 +00:00 .
Elana Goldsmith , whose husband Michael is on life support after contracting COVID-19 , speaks out .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
It ’s been a “ difficult time " for the family of Michael Goldsmith , a 34 - year - old father of two who is on life support after being diagnosed with the coronavirus .
Michael ’s family has made a desperate plea to get him the experimental drug treatment remdesivir , which has been described as his only hope for recovery .
“ It ’s been a little bit of a rollercoaster , ” Michael ’s wife Elana told “ Outnumbered Overtime . ”
SCIENTISTS OFFER HOPEFUL NEWS ON COVID-19 VACCINE BASED ON VIRUS ' MUTATION RATE
Goldsmith said that her family can not access the drug remdesivir because Michael does not qualify for “ compassionate use . ”
“ When we applied for compassionate use before Michael was intubated on Friday , March 20th , he could have qualified for it , however , Gilead changed their guidelines to only include pregnant women and children under 18 for compassionate use , ” Goldsmith said .
Goldsmith went on to say , “ He no longer qualifies for clinical trial because the Gilead guidelines say you have to be intubated less than four days and by the time Gilead approved Michael to join the clinical trial , he had already been intubated for six days . ”
The antiviral , which is awaiting regulatory approval as a coronavirus treatment , is being used in a number of clinical trials across the globe .
CLICK
HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS MAP
Elana Goldsmith previously told Fox News that her husband started showing coronavirus symptoms on March 11 and was diagnosed as positive on March 15 .
Initially sent home for self - quarantine , his condition worsened and within days , he had 104.9 - degree fever .
He was admitted to the hospital on March 18 .
Doctors at Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey intubated and ventilated the IT consultant on March 20 and attempted to obtain remdesivir from drugmaker Gilead Sciences ’ “ compassionate use ” program .
CLICK
HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP Goldsmith said that she does n’t understand why the guidelines were changed .
“ Michael ’s doctors have been working around the clock to get this drug for him , ” she said .
Goldsmith ’s family and the medical community have launched a campaign to cut through the red tape and get hold of remdesivir .
A " Physician ’s Petition " calls on President Trump to invoke the Defense Production Act with regard to Gilead Sciences .
The Defense Production Act allows the president to direct private companies to produce goods or acquire raw materials .
The petition , which has over 1,100 signatories , has reached some members of the White House staff , according to the Goldsmith family .
Fox News ' James Rogers contributed to this report .

Wild animals have taken over the streets in major cities because of the coronavirus pandemic .
2020-04-03 16:55:27 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
The coronavirus pandemic has left most of the world 's major cities , including London , New York and others , empty .
As humans hunker down , with shelter - in - place measures around the world enacted , wild animals have started to take over .
Several pictures taken by photographers around the world show all types of mammals , including deer , goats and others roaming through the streets and communities , unabated .
A herd of deer decided to rest in a housing estate in Harold Hill , Romford , east London .
( SWNS )
In London , a herd of deer was spotted resting in a housing state in Harold Hill , Romford .
Earlier this week , images of London went viral , showing what used to be bustling places , such as the London Eye , Chinatown , Borough Market and the National Gallery , completely empty .
In Nara , Japan , deer were spotted walking around a shopping area .
Approximately 100 deer were seen walking around the city .
They are usually fed by tourists , but they have ventured further into the city to look for food .
A young boy rides his bike past a deer wandering around the shopping area in Nara , Japan , Thursday , March 19 , 2020 .
( AP Photo / Jae C. Hong )
In Llandudno , Wales , several mountain goats were spotted roaming the streets on March 31 .
The goats , who occasionally visit the town to be fed by tourists , were drawn by the lack of people , a local counselor told the BBC .
LLANDUDNO , WALES - MARCH 31 : Mountain goats roam the streets of LLandudno on March 31 , 2020 in Llandudno , Wales .
( Photo by Christopher Furlong / Getty Images ) Fox News previously reported that hordes of starving monkeys were spotted in the streets of Thailand , as fighting over food scraps , due to the pandemic .
CLICK
HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
Other cities have also seen an influx of animals infiltrating areas where humans once gathered in significant numbers , according to Yahoo :
Spotted deer were seen wandering along a road in the city of Tirupati , India .
Wild boars were seen throughout northern Italy , including one mother walking through empty streets with her offspring in Bergamo .
A number of wild boar have also been seen in parts of Paris .
Several puma were seen walking around the streets of Santiago , Chile , after the country 's Agricultural and Livestock Service said they came down from the mountains in search of food .
As of Friday morning , more than 1 million coronavirus cases have been diagnosed worldwide , more than 245,00 of which are in the U.S. , the most impacted country on the planet .
GET THE FOX NEWS APP

WNBA postpones start of regular season over coronavirus outbreak, latest social distancing guidelines .
2020-04-03 16:36:23 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
The WNBA announced Friday training camp and the start of the regular season will be postponed because of the coronavirus pandemic , which has brought sports to a grinding halt .
WNBA Commissioner Cathy Engelbert said in a statement the league made the decision based on the latest CDC guidelines to continue social distancing at least through April 30 .
WNBA DRAFT WILL BE VIRTUAL EVENT
THIS SEASON DUE TO PANDEMIC
“ As developments continue to emerge around the COVID-19 pandemic , including the extension of the social distancing guidelines in the United States through April 30 , the WNBA will postpone the start of its training camps and tip of the regular season originally scheduled for May 15 , ” Engelbert said .
“ While the league continues to use this time to conduct scenario - planning regarding new start dates and innovative formats , our guiding principle will continue to be the health and safety of the players , fans and employees . ”
The league ’s annual draft is still set to take place April 17 but will be conducted virtually .
Some of the top prospects this year include Oregon ’s Sabrina Ionescu , Baylor ’s Lauren Cox , Connecticut ’s Megan Walker and Texas AM ’s Chennedy Carter .
WNBA PLAYER REVEALS
SHE HAD ' UNKNOWN VIRUS ' WHILE PLAYING IN CHINA DURING CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK
“ This virtual draft allows players who have worked so hard to have their dreams realized when they hear their names called and provides teams the opportunity to build their rosters in anticipation of the day that we are able to move forward with our season , ” Engelbert said .
“ We continue to send our thoughts and prayers to our players , fans , and all of those in the community impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and are grateful to those selfless health care workers and first responders who work tirelessly on the front lines . ”
CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
Engelbert did n’t specify a timeline as to when they will determine restarting operations .

Harvey Weinstein has 'no issues' related to coronavirus, spokesperson says it's unclear if he was ever tested .
2020-04-03 16:05:29 +00:00 .
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking today in entertainment .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Harvey Weinstein never received confirmation on whether or not he contracted COVID-19 , the novel coronavirus , his spokesperson claims to Fox News .
The disgraced movie mogul , who is currently serving a 23 - year sentence at Wende Correctional Facility in New York , reportedly received a positive test result last month .
Now , a spokesperson for the convicted rapist tells Fox News he currently has " no issues " related to the virus that has claimed the lives of thousands .
He added that whether Weinstein was ever given a COVID-19 test remains uncomfirmed .
HARVEY WEINSTEIN MOVED TO NY STATE MAXIMUM - SECURITY PRISON Harvey
Weinstein arrives at the Manhattan Criminal Court , on February 24 , 2020 in New York City .
( Getty )
" He is fine , " Juda S. Engelmayer told Fox News on Friday .
" There was never confirmation one way or another [ on the test ] . "
Engelmayer 's comments come a little over a week after he told Fox News that the real issue the former producer is facing is his new life behind bars .
" He 's [ physically ] well , " the spokesman said on March 26 .
" It 's prison he is having a hard time adjusting to . "
Weinstein , the Oscar - winning producer of “ Shakespeare in Love , ” was convicted of raping an aspiring actress in 2013 and forcibly performing oral sex on a TV and film production assistant in 2006 .
His lawyers have said they ’ll appeal .
HARVEY WEINSTEIN SENTENCE : WHAT IT MEANS FOR HIS FAMILY AND WHAT 'S NEXT IN THE CALIFORNIA
CRIMINAL CASE Harvey Weinstein leaves the courthouse during jury deliberations in his rape trial in New York .
( AP / Mary Altaffer )
Weinstein had been moved from New York City 's Rikers Island jail to Wende Correctional Facility in Buffalo , N.Y. in mid - March .
Amid his relocation , the New York City jail system that includes Rikers reported at least 19 inmates and 12 staff members being diagnosed with coronavirus .
Between his conviction and his move to the upstate prison , Weinstein split time between a cell at Rikers and a room at Bellevue Hospital .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
He left court in an ambulance after the guilty verdict was made in February and detoured to Bellevue , complaining of chest pains and high blood pressure .
He later had a stent inserted to unblock an artery .
After his March 11 sentencing , he returned to the hospital with more chest pains .
In addition to heart issues , Weinstein ’s lawyers have said he is also dealing with the ramifications of unsuccessful back surgery stemming from a car crash last summer and a condition that requires shots in his eyes so he does not go blind .
Fox News ' Jessica Napoli and the Associated Press contributed to this report .

Georgia governor says he only just learned coronavirus carriers can be asymptomatic .
2020-04-03 12:09:32 +00:00 .
Find out 4 facts about Andrew Cuomo , governor of New York , including his political background and coronavirus involvement .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp said Wednesday that he had just learned this week that the coronavirus can be contagious before people are showing symptoms , citing that fact as part of the reason why he ordered a more strict shelter - in - place order for his state after previously balking on doing so -- yet the White House had said so as early as Jan. 31 .
" I think as the reason I 'm taking these actions it 's like I 've continued to tell people I 'm following the data , I 'm following the advice of Dr. Toomey , " Kemp told reporters Wednesday , referencing Dr. Kathleen Toomey , the commissioner of the Georgia Department of Public Health .
"
Her and I both mentioned in our remarks , you know , finding out that this virus is now transmitting before people see signs so what we 've been telling people from directives from the CDC for weeks now that if you start feeling bad , stay home -- those individuals could have been infecting people before they even felt bad . "
Kemp , a Republican , continued : " But we did n't know that until the last 24 hours and as Dr. Toomey told me , she goes , ' this is a game - changer for us . ' "
CORONAVIRUS :
WHAT TO KNOW
TRUMP SLAMS ' PARTISAN ' PROBES AFTER PELOSI ANNOUNCES CORONAVIRUS COMMITTEE : ' HERE WE GO AGAIN '
But Dr. Anthony Fauci , the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and one of the most recognizable faces of the White House coronavirus response , had disclosed that " game - changer " detail in January .
" You know that , in the beginning , we were not sure if there were asymptomatic infection , which would make it a much broader outbreak than what we ’re seeing , " Fauci said .
" Now we know for sure that there are . "
Kemp closed all public K-12 schools this week .
The Georgia Department of Public Health released a statement on Thursday that seemed to address and attempt to justify Kemp 's Wednesday comments , which have been widely panned online , with one outlet suggesting he 's either " lying or incompetent . "
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
" For weeks it has been known that people who were positive for COVID-19 but did not have symptoms likely were able to transmit the virus , " the release said .
" However , on March 30 , Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) Director Robert Redfield , M.D. , confirmed that new data indicates that as many as 25 % of individuals infected with COVID-19 remain asymptomatic .
Additionally , science also now informs us that individuals who are symptomatic , are infectious up to 48 hours before symptoms appear . "
On Wednesday , just three hours before Kemp 's press conference , the CDC shared information that seemed to further confirm what Fauci had said in January -- that the coronavirus can be contagious in people who do not have symptoms .
" New @CDCMMWR report on # COVID19 in Singapore shows that some clusters of cases likely resulted from people without symptoms spreading illness , " the agency tweeted . "
Social distancing and avoiding crowds are key to slowing the spread of COVID-19 . "

Travel company that arranged spring break trip accused of downplaying coronavirus threat: report .
2020-04-03 10:41:59 +00:00 .
Mike Tobin highlights three stories from countless examples of goodwill across a nation facing the COVID-19 pandemic .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
The travel company that organized a chartered spring break trip to Mexico last month has been accused of downplaying the severity of the coronavirus after some of the students came down with the virus , reports on Thursday said .
In an email obtained by NBC News , JusCollege , a Nevada - based company that plans all - inclusive spring break trips , told one mother that it believed that there was " no compelling reason to reconsider travel to Mexico due to the coronavirus . "
The email was sent on March 11 , when states were already taking steps to reduce infection numbers .
CORONAVIRUS INFECTS DOZENS OF UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SPRING BREAKERS WHO CHARTERED PLANE TO MEXICO Cece Guida , 19 , top , of New York City , pushes on Sam Reddick , 20 , of Evansville , Ind. , as spring break revelers look on during a game of chicken fight on the beach , Tuesday , March 17 , 2020 , in Pompano Beach , Fla. ( AP Photo / Julio Cortez )
The University of Texas at Austin said on Thursday 44 of the 70 young adults who went on the trip have tested positive upon their return .
All of the students who tested positive were from UT Austin , although originally far more wanted to go , and some were from other schools , according to the news organization .
Karen Greenblatt , the mother who emailed the company , said she believes it was exploiting kids who might not have known any better .
" I could n't believe they were going to take college kids outside the country at that point , " she told NBC News .
" They had ' no compelling reason . '
I 'm like , ' Seriously ... no compelling reason ? ' "
Other parents reportedly also expressed their worries over the trip , and it 's not clear if they will get their money back for canceling .
In an email to Greenblatt on March 19 , JusCollege wrote that it was working with third - party vendors to get her a " possible refund or credit options within the next 14 days . "
The company reportedly told her two days earlier that " refunds will not be available until a later time , but we will reimburse any refunds that are provided by the airlines and hotels if and when they are processed , " according to the report .
FORMER NFL GREAT TALKS ABOUT BATTLE WITH CORONAVIRUS , ' I DON'T WANT TO DIE HERE '
JusCollege did not immediately respond to an after - hours email from Fox News .
Austin health officials , as well as those with UT Health Austin and University Health Services , said on Tuesday they had been in contact with every spring breaker who was a part of the group back when the City of Austin announced 28 had tested positive and were self - isolating .
CLICK
HERE FOR MORE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
“ Others are under quarantine while being monitored and tested , ” the release added .
" Due to recent COVID-19 concerns , the remaining Spring Break trips are being postponed until a later date in 2020 , " JusCollege said in an automated email response .
" We understand that this situation is frustrating and we 're doing our best to support you , our customer .
We will send key updates via email .
We thank you for your cooperation and patience during this time . "
Fox News ' Madeline Farber contributed to this report

Tucker says Loeffler 'should leave office' if she knew of controversial stock trades and claimed all was well .
2020-04-03 02:42:55 +00:00 .
Georgia Senator Kelly Loeffler claims she only learned about these trades after the fact .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Tucker Carlson ended his program Thursday by addressing the latest details in the case of Sen. Kelly Loeffler , R - Ga. , who was criticized for dumping stocks after receiving a briefing from two members of President Trump 's coronavirus task force .
" New congressional disclosures show that Loeffler sold far more stock than we initially knew , " the " Tucker Carlson Tonight " host began .
" Between Feb. 26 and March 11 , Loeffler and her husband dumped almost 19 million dollars of stock in Intercontinental Exchange .
That 's the company her husband runs .
" During that same period , the couple also sold more than a million dollars in shares of other companies , including several retailers .
Meanwhile , they bought a lot of DuPont [ stock ] .
DuPont manufactures antiviral protective gear . "
SCHUMER CALLS FOR ETHICS REVIEW OF SENATORS ' PRE - CORONAVIRUS STOCK SALES Loeffler defended her stock trades Wednesday by stressing that her investment portfolio is “ managed independently by third - party advisors [ sic ] .
" The trades disclosures were first reported by the Atlanta Journal - Constitution newspaper .
" So did Loeffler know any of this was happening ?
We do n't know the answer to that , " Carlson said .
" We do know that on March 10 , after almost all these trades were done , she went on Twitter to assure her constituents that everything was fine . "
" The good news is the consumer is strong .
The economy is strong .
Jobs are growing , " Loeffler said in a video posted to Twitter on that date .
" Our president has done a fantastic job in making sure that we 're in the best position to manage through this situation . "
" Again , we do n't know the truth , " Carlson said , " but if Loeffler knew about these trades and still issued the little PSA we showed you , she should leave office . "
CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE
CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE Loeffler denied wrongdoing in a March 20 interview conducted by Carlson .
The host also said a federal investigation should take place into Sen. Richard Burr , R - N.C. , and Rep. Cheri Bustos , D - Ill. , who executed similar trades to Loeffler 's around the same time .
Fox News ' Brooke Singman and Edmunde DeMarche contributed to this report .

Who is JB Pritzker? 3 facts about Illinois governor .
2020-04-03 02:01:36 +00:00 .
Illinois Gov. Pritzker slams ' profoundly unamerican ' ' racist speech ' about coronavirus , in apparent swipe at Trump
Along with the daily news briefings by President Trump and the White House coronavirus task force , daily updates from top governors -- from Andrew Cuomo of New York to J.B. Pritzker of Illinois -- have emerged as must - see events in this COVID-19 pandemic .
Pritzker , a first - term liberal Democrat , blasted Trump this past March before the two got into a Twitter feud about the administration 's response .
Leading the Land of Lincoln , the 43rd governor of Illinois compared Trump to a " carnival barker " before the two got on the phone and the president promised the state of Illinois 250,000 masks and 300 ventilators .
Pritzker extended the state 's stay - at - home order through the end of April in keeping with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [ CDC ] recommendations , as well as keeping schools closed .
He also sent the National Guard to Stateville Correctional Center after one inmate died from the coronavirus .
CORONAVIRUS : WHAT TO KNOW
The state has seen at least 6,980 confirmed cases and 146 deaths from COVID-19 .
He is the wealthiest governor in American history
Pritzker , named after his uncles Jay and Bob , " J.B. , " had an estimated personal net worth of $ 3.4 billion and more private wealth than any other governor in U.S. history .
He is the second - wealthiest politician to ever hold office behind former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg .
Prior to becoming governor , he was co - founder and managing partner of the Pritzker Group in Chicago and is a member of the Pritzker family , who largely owns the Hyatt hotel chain and has been near the top of the Forbes " America 's Richest Families " list since it started in 1982 .
He was first elected in 2018
Pritzker unsuccessfully ran for the U.S. House of Representatives in Illinois ' 9th congressional district in 1998 , spending half a million dollars from his own pockets .
He finished third among five candidates in the Democratic primary .
Then , in 2008 , he served as Hillary Clinton 's national co - chairman for the campaign and helped bring the Clinton and Obama campaigns together in Illinois .
Illinois voters elected him governor in 2018 ; he took office in January 2019 .
Blagojevich consulted him to replace Obama 's seat
In 2017 , the Chicago Tribune published an 11 - minute FBI wiretap between then - Gov. Rod Blagojevich and Pritzker from 2008 , showing the two discussing campaign contributions and a potential appointment of Pritzker to a state office .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
At the time , Pritzker said he had " not done anything wrong , " but he later apologized for a number of controversial and incendiary comments made in a private conversation with Blagojevich as the two discussed who would fill then - President Obama 's U.S. Senate seat in 2008 .
He was recorded as saying that appointing then - Secretary of State Jesse White would " cover you on the African - American thing " and that he was the " least offensive " candidate .

Sailor Brinkley defends decision to wear N95 mask in public amid shortage during coronavirus pandemic .
2020-04-02 22:02:02 +00:00 .
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking today in entertainment .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Sailor Brinkley is shutting down social media criticism that the model said she received after wearing a protective mask in public amid the novel coronavirus pandemic .
The 21 - year - old was out and about in Brooklyn on Wednesday with her boyfriend Ben Sosne when the pair was photographed donning the highly coveted N95 personal protective facemask that many health care professionals have gone without during the COVID-19 outbreak , as confirmed cases pile up and hospitals continue to operate at full capacity .
Brinkley and Sosne were reportedly out picking up groceries when they were spotted with their masks on and afterward , the daughter of Christie Brinkley and Peter Cook put the angry backlash to bed once and for all .
CORONAVIRUS : WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
“ To everyone reaching out ( very angrily ) about me having a mask .
My mom is an artist and does projects that require her to wear a mask so she had a stash of them in her art studio , ” she explained on her Instagram Story , according to People magazine .
“ We did n’t buy them upon hearing about the spread of COVID-19 .
She kept one mask for each one of our family members and then donated the rest to local hospitals . ”
Brinkley said her mother is continuously working to “ find supplies and keep hospital workers safe as well , ” adding that the legendary model is also donating 30 percent of her brand ’s proceeds to the Direct Relief Foundation , an organization at the frontlines of providing hospitals with masks and other personal protective equipment .
TRUMP PUSHES TO BRING BACK ENTERTAINMENT TAX DEDUCTIONS AMID CORONAVIRUS
Brinkley maintained that she and her boyfriend each have just “ one mask , ” adding that in addition to being grateful to have one , they ’re also “ donating daily to organizations helping to create masks . ”
“ When we go to the grocery store or out on a walk we wear them so that god forbid if we might have [ COVID-19 ] and do n’t know we do n’t spread it to someone less able to fight it off , ” she said .
“ Please stop sending me hateful messages , and stay safe ❤ ️. ” Model Sailor Brinkley and professional dancer Val Chmerkovskiy compete on ' Dancing with the Stars . '
( Getty )
On Monday , Christie Brinkley revealed in an interview with “ Extra ” that Sailor had been responsible for the fact that she had been traveling extensively prior to the outbreak and was keeping her distance from the family for everyone ’s safety .
CELEBRITIES WHO HAVE TESTED POSITIVE FOR CORONAVIRUS
“ My son is with me .
My daughters are -- do n't even get me started , I 'm missing them so much .
And I 'm so worried about them .
They 're both in the city , ” the supermodel told the program via FaceTime .
“ But Sailor was touring with ‘ Dancing with the Stars , ’ ” Brinkley explained .
“ And she was meeting with crowds of people every night , hugging everybody so she said , ' Mom , there is no way I 'm coming home until I 'm 100 percent sure
I have n't contracted anything . ’
" HOW DANGEROUS IS CORONAVIRUS ?
Brinkley later added of Sailor and her other daughter , musician Alexa Ray Joel : “ Of course , I want my babies here . ”

Trump campaign blasts Jeff Sessions as 'delusional,' demands Senate campaign stop promoting ties to president .
2020-04-02 19:24:05 +00:00 .
President Trump ’s re - election campaign on Thursday blasted former Jeff Sessions as “ delusional ” and demanded that the former attorney general “ immediately stop ” promoting ties to the president in his primary campaign for the U.S. Senate in Alabama .
Trump campaign chief operation officer Michael Glassner , in a scathing letter to Sessions , slammed his campaign ’s efforts to show his “ support ” for the president -- despite Sessions ' and Trump 's rocky history .
ALABAMA POSTPONES PRIMARY RUNOFF PITTING SESSIONS AGAINST TRUMP - ENDORSED TUBERVILLE
“ The Trump Campaign has learned that your U.S. Senate campaign is circulating mailers like the one I have enclosed , in which you misleadingly promote your connections to and ‘ support ’ of President Trump , ” Glassner wrote in the letter , which was first reported by The New York Times and later obtained by Fox News .
Glassner attached the mailer , which was a form for Sessions ’ donors and mentioned Trump by name “ 22 times . ”
“ The letter even makes the delusional assertion that you are President Trump ’s “ # 1 Supporter , ” Glassner wrote .
“ We only assume your campaign is doing this to confuse President Trump ’s loyal supporters in Alabama into believing the President supports your candidacy in the upcoming primary runoff election . ”
He added : “ Nothing could be further from the truth . ”
“ We want to be absolutely clear about it , ” Glassner wrote .
“ President Trump and the Trump Campaign unambiguously endorse Tommy Tuberville . ”
TRUMP SNUBS SESSIONS , ENDORSES TUBERVILLE IN ALABAMA SENATE RACE Glassner went on to quote the president ’s March 10 endorsement of Tuberville , Sessions ’ primary rival and the former head football coach at Auburn , where he called him a “ winner ” and said he “ has my Complete and Total Endorsement . ”
“ President Trump and his Campaign do not support your efforts to return to the U.S. Senate , ” Glassner wrote .
“ We demand that you and your campaign immediately stop circulating mailers — or any other similar communication — that wrongly suggest otherwise . ”
Both Both Tuberville and Sessions will be on the GOP ticket for a runoff election after no candidate received 50 percent of the vote in last month ’s GOP primary .
That runoff was originally scheduled for this Tuesday , but due to coronavirus , was postponed until July 14 .
Sessions previously held the Senate seat he is running for , which Sen. Doug Jones , D - Ala. , now holds before he vacated it to become Trump ’s attorney general .
Before their relationship soured , Sessions was one of Trump 's most prominent supporters -- he was the first senator to endorse Trump 's presidential campaign in 2016 .
But the president fired Sessions as his attorney general in November 2018 after frustration over Sessions ' recusal from the Russia investigation .
Last month , Sessions responded to Trump ’s endorsement of Tuberville by tweeting that the president “ can endorse anyone he chooses for the U.S. Senate election in Alabama .
But the Constitution expressly empowers the people of Alabama , and only them , to select their Senator .
I intend to take my case directly to the people of Alabama . ”
Fox News was unable to reach Sessions for comment on Thursday .

Cruise ship concerns: Over 200 members of Ruby Princess crew reportedly sick on coronavirus-linked ship .
2020-04-02 14:09:57 +00:00 .
Dr. Peter Hotez weighs in on the dilemma Florida is facing with treating coronavirus patients on cruise ships Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Medical officials boarded the Ruby Princess cruise ship in Australia on Thursday to conduct health checks for crew members amid reports that at least 200 of the 1,000 - plus employees on board were sick and self - isolating on the coronavirus - linked ship .
The Ruby Princess ship has allegedly become an “ epicenter ” of the COVID-19 outbreak in Australia , with seven deaths and at least 300 cases of the coronavirus linked to the vessel to date , 9News and The Associated Press report .
The ship is currently anchored off the coast of Sydney , and passengers are no longer on board .
The Ruby Princess departs Sydney Harbour with no passengers and only crew on board as it passes the Opera House on March 19 .
( James D. Morgan / Getty Images )
On Thursday , a 66 - year - old man was evacuated from the Ruby Princess for medical care , according to The Guardian , after New South Wales ( NSW ) Ministry of Health authorities and an independent health care team boarded the ocean liner for medical evaluations of the crew , amid concerns that some may be infected with the novel coronavirus .
Six crew members from the Ruby Princess have already been hospitalized after falling ill , though their exact diagnoses remain unclear .
CRUISING DURING THE CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK : SHOULD I CANCEL MY CRUISE ?
WHAT PRECAUTIONS SHOULD I TAKE ?
More recently , about 250 crew members were " experiencing sickness " and isolating themselves , per 9News .
Reuters has similarly described the situation aboard the Ruby Princess as “ Australia ’s worst coronavirus outbreak . ”
The Ruby Princess is seen off the coast of Sydney on March 24 .
( Ryan Pierse / Getty Images )
In recent weeks , officials have been criticized for allowing the Ruby Princess ’ nearly 2,700 passengers to disembark when the ship docked in Sydney , following the completion of an 11 - day cruise from New Zealand , BBC reports .
NSW Health said at the time that about a dozen passengers had felt unwell and taken tests for COVID-19 — though other passengers were not alerted of this update , ultimately departing the ship without screening and traveling home .
A spokesperson for Princess Cruises was not immediately available to offer further comment .
As of April 2 , there are eight cruise ships with thousands of passengers and crew lingering off the coast of NSW , 9News reports .
Though the Australian government has ordered the ships to leave during the coronavirus crisis , they have refused to comply , according to The Guardian .
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
The Ruby Princess departs Sydney Harbour with no passengers and only crew on board as it passes the Opera House on March 19 .
( James D. Morgan / Getty Images ) NSW Police Commissioner Mick Fuller said on Thursday that there was some concern that “ bringing 9,000 people off the cruise ships ” could “ overload ” local health care systems , per the outlet .
“ We know around the world that when the hospital systems become overwhelmed , then lots and lots of people die , ” Fuller said .
An additional update on the developing operation regarding the cruise ships would be shared on Friday , he added .
CLICK HERE FOR FOX NEWS ' CONTINUING CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
The Associated Press contributed to this report .

New York City hospital worker who caught coronavirus returns to treat patients .
2020-04-02 12:16:50 +00:00 .
Dr. Stuart Ditchek tells ' Fox amp ; Friends ' that hospitals are running out of vital equipment to treat COVID-19 patients .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
New Yorkers have a reputation for being tough and resilient – and Raeburn Fairweather is a shining example of that .
The respiratory therapist at Brooklyn ’s Maimonides Medical Center is now back at work trying to save the lives of coronavirus patients after catching and recovering from the sickness himself .
“ I love my job , and I was very bored at home , ” he told the New York Post this week , describing how his fever once reached 104 degrees while he was fighting COVID-19 .
CLICK
HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE The 47 - year - old father of five said he first started seeing symptoms after working a triple shift at the hospital in New York City on March 17 .
One of his roles there is inserting and removing ventilator tubes from coronavirus - positive patients .
He then got tested the next day and started self - quarantining inside his Brooklyn home , using a spare room and bathroom avoided by his wife and 11 - year - old son , while awaiting the result .
NEW YORK SURPASSES CHINA IN CORONAVIRUS CASES For more than a week , Fairweather says he was coughing up “ thick , white mucus ” and told the New York Post that his body “ felt like it was falling apart . ”
“ Headaches were immense .
They were making my eyeballs feel like they were on springs , ” he added .
Fairweather , a native of Jamaica , reportedly treated himself with Tylenol and an array of Caribbean home remedies made out of turmeric , garlic and ginger .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP On Monday this week , he learned his test came back positive .
But Fairweather was allowed to return to Maimonides the same day since he had n’t experienced a fever in the 72 hours beforehand , in accordance with hospital policy , the newspaper adds .
Fairweather says his first shift back was “ 17 hours non - stop " and his wife and son living with him at his Brooklyn home have not shown any symptoms .

‘Bachelor’ alum Caroline Lunny says she has coronavirus after being criticized for wearing a mask .
2020-04-01 20:55:38 +00:00 .
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking today in entertainment .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
" Bachelor " alum Caroline Lunny has tested positive for coronavirus .
The 29 - year - old realtor , who appeared on season 22 of the ABC reality series and vied for Arie Luyendyk Jr. ’s heart , revealed her diagnosis on Instagram on Wednesday .
" I have coronavirus , " she wrote .
" I do n’t know why I feel embarrassed by this , like I feel like no one is ever going to want to hang out with me ever again .
' BACHELOR ' STAR COLTON UNDERWOOD ON CORONAVIRUS SYMPTOMS : ' IT GOT SCARY '
"
But everyone was dming me attacking me for wearing this mask yesterday when healthcare workers need them ...
I ’m so grateful for all the doctors , nurses , healthcare workers , delivery people , grocery store workers , and everyone else who ’s on the front line making this world keep turning right now , " added Lunny , who is seen wearing a mask and gloves in the accompanying photo .
She continued : " But please stop dming me and attacking me and saying awful things to me for wearing a mask to protect my family .
I m allowed to wear a mask . "
Lunny went on to say that she initially thought she was negative for the novel virus .
CELEBRITIES WHO HAVE TESTED POSITIVE FOR CORONAVIRUS " ...
[ B]ut as many of you nurses pointed out the test was negative for influenza A , B , RSV , not COVID-19 , " she stated .
" I ’m not a doctor and did n’t how to read the results .
I did n’t know they even tested me for the regular flu . "
The reality star said that she received a phone call from her doctor a few days later and it was confirmed that she had contracted coronavirus .
" I can not stress enough how much you need to STAY HOME , " Lunny said .
" I luckily have a mild case , I ’m going to live .
But ANYONE can get this .
I ’m young and healthy .
And this is only going to get worse before it gets better . "
Caroline Lunny arrives at Chippendales Las Vegas at the Rio All - Suit Hotel and Casino on March 23 , 2019 in Las Vegas , Nevada .
( Denise Truscello / WireImage )
She then urged her social media followers to stay home and practice social distancing .
" This is scary , this is dangerous , " Lunny said .
" My best friend just lost her grandmother to covid-19 .
I have a mild case , luckily ... but it makes me think about how many other people may have it and not even know .
How many have it and dismiss it as allergies or just a cold .
" I have had worse flus than I have now , " she continued .
" But just because it ’s mild in one person , does n’t mean it could n’t kill the next .
So stay home .
Watch a show .
Wash your hands .
Just be smart .
Do your part to flatten the curve ! "
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Lunny concluded : " I ’m lonely AF .
I GET IT !
I have n’t seen another human up close in 14 days now .
But this will eventually pass .
We have to do our part to flatten the curve .
The longer we do n’t sit still , the longer this is going to be , and more people will die .
We are not invincible .
STAY HOME PLEASE !
See you all in a month ♥ ️ 😷 stay healthy xoxo.#corona # coronavirus # covid19 # flattenthecurve . "
Lunny is the second person from the Bachelor franchise to contract COVID-19 .
On March 20 , Colton Underwood revealed that he had tested positive for the virus .

'Billions' and 'Black Monday's seasons to be split due to coronavirus scheduling changes .
2020-04-01 20:31:07 +00:00 .
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking today in entertainment .
Showtime has joined almost every network in being forced to make scheduling changes due to the coronavirus pandemic , which has caused widespread production shutdowns across the globe .
The cabler has announced that season 2 of “ Black Monday , ” which is currently airing , and season 5 of “ Billions ” will be interrupted mid - flow .
“ Black Monday ” will air through six episodes until April 12 , at which point it will go on hiatus , returning with its last four episodes at an undetermined point later this year .
Likewise “ Billions ” is still on track to premiere May 3 and air seven episodes un - interrupted , before going off the air for an as yet undecided length of time .
‘ HOW TO GET AWAY WITH MURDER ’ TEAM REFLECTS ON ROAD TO SERIES FINALE
“ Black Monday ” had completed shooting , but was still in post - production when the shutdown took affect , according to sources .
“ Billions ” was still in the process of shooting .
In addition , the season 3 premiere of “ The Chi ” has been moved up to Sunday , June 21 to help plug the content gap .
The whole of season 3 will air without interruption .
HBO MOVES MARK RUFFALO LIMITED SERIES ‘ I KNOW
THIS MUCH IS TRUE ’ TO MAY
Fortunately for “ Penny Dreadful ” fans , the new season “ Penny Dreadful : City of Angels ” looks to unaffected , as the show is still scheduled to begin airing from Sunday , April 26 .
News of the scheduling changes come as networks scramble to deal with the programming nightmare caused by the production shutdowns .
Showtime already had to push the premiere dates for two docuseries in the form of “ Love Fraud , ” which was scheduled for May 8 , and “ Outcry , ” which was initially slated to premiere April 3 .
ELLIOT STABLER ‘ LAW ORDER : SVU ’ SPINOFF WITH CHRISTOPHER MELONI SET AT NBC
This story originally appeared in Variety .

Val Kilmer says ex Cher ‘stepped in and stepped up’ during his cancer battle: ‘I prayed immediately’ .
2020-04-01 16:42:40 +00:00 .
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking today in entertainment .
When Val Kilmer was diagnosed with throat cancer in 2015 , it was Cher who stood by his side .
The 60 - year - old opened up about his health battle in a new memoir , titled “ I ’m Your Huckleberry , ” which is scheduled to be released on April 21 .
In the book , the actor opened up about how the singer , whom he dated in the 1980s , shined a light during his darkest days .
According to Kilmer , the 73 - year - old invited him to stay in her guest house while his health was declining .
“ One night , I suddenly awoke vomiting blood that covered the bed like a scene out of ‘ The Godfather , ’ ”
Kilmer wrote , as reported by People magazine on Wednesday .
' BIGGEST LOSER ' HOST BOB HARPER SHARES
THE ONE WORKOUT HE 'S EAGER TO TRY DURING QUARANTINE Cher and Val Kilmer dated in the ' 80s .
( Photo by Barry King / WireImage / Getty )
LEE GREENWOOD REFLECTS ON ‘ GOD BLESS THE U.S.A. ’ SUCCESS , LASTING MARRIAGE OF 27 YEARS
“ I prayed immediately , then called 911 , ” he continued .
“ Then alerted my hostess .
Cher stepped in and stepped up . ”
Kilmer added the music icon managed to make him laugh .
“ And yet even in my grave condition , I saw her scanning the paramedic , who was Gregory Peck drop - dead handsome , ” shared the star .
“ Only in Hollywood , right ?
Despite the fact that I was covered in blood , I caught her eye and bounced my brows like Groucho Marx .
Hubba hubba .
Cher was bashful to be busted but then could n’t help laughing out loud at the audacity .
“ Here we were , joking about beauty and desire , while I looked like a stunt man from Tarantino ’s ‘ Reservoir Dogs ’ and , yes , while my life seemed to be in mortal danger , ” added Kilmer .
“ We laughed out loud before they finished with my vitals and shut me up with an oxygen mask . ”
According to the outlet , Kilmer underwent a tracheotomy , chemotherapy and radiation .
In addition , he turned to his Christian Science faith and prayed for healing .
TCM HOST ALICIA
MALONE REVEALS 6 COMFORTING OLD HOLLYWOOD FILMS TO WATCH DURING CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC Actor Val Kilmer visits the United Nations headquarters in New York City , New York to promote the 17 Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ) initiative , July 20 , 2019 .
( Photo by EuropaNewswire / Gado / Getty Images ) JOHN TESH RECALLS
HOW HE WAS ' READY TO TAKE ’ HIMSELF ‘ OUT ’ WHILE BATTLING CANCER : ' I WAS ANGRY AT GOD '
Today , Kilmer is cancer - free .
“ I have been healed of cancer for over four years now , and there has never been any reoccurrence , ” said Kilmer .
“ I am so grateful . ”
Kilmer ’s speech has been impacted by cancer .
However , he ’s keeping busy by doing voice exercises every day .
In addition , he ’s been touring with his one - man show about Mark Twain and this summer he will reprise his role in the “ Top Gun ” sequel “ Maverick . ”
The film is slated to open in theaters on June 24 .
“ The fact that my impeded speech could spell the end of my career only served to motivate me , ” wrote Kilmer .

Alligators killed at Joe Exotic's zoo reportedly belonged to Michael Jackson .
2020-04-01 15:32:08 +00:00 .
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking today in entertainment .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
The popularity of the hit Netflix documentary series “ Tiger King : Murder , Mayhem and Madness ” has shed new light on its subject , Joseph Maldonado - Passage ( better known as Joe Exotic ) and his reported connection to late singer Michael Jackson .
Those who have seen the seven - part series know that in 2015 a fire at Joe Exotic ’s Oklahoma zoo took out not only his recording studio but a nearby facility that housed multiple alligators , all of which died in the blaze .
The fire was suspected to be an arson , but no one was charged .
What the documentary does n’t cover is the fact that the animals that died are believed to have been previously owned by Jackson on his Neverland Ranch .
CORONAVIRUS PREVENTION TIPS : HOW TO STOP TOUCHING YOUR FACE Animals that died in an alleged arson at Joe Exotic 's zoo in 2015 reportedly belonged to Michael Jackson .
“ As most of you know , an arsonist hit our facility a day before yesterday in the sometime wee hours and set fire to not only my recording studio but the studio that houses our alligators , which caused them all to burn up and perish , boiling alive in a towering inferno of nothing but flames and fire , ” Joe said in a JoeExoticTV YouTube video , published on March 28 , 2015 .
At the time of the fire , Joe told the Los Angeles Times that seven of the alligators and a crocodile that died in the fire were taken from Neverland following its closure .
New York Magazine reported in September 2019 that baby alligators were killed in the fire that were the offspring of an alligator that lived with Jackson at Neverland .
WHY DO SOME COUNTRIES STILL HAVE NEXT TO NO RECORDED OUTBREAKS OF CORONAVIRUS ?
Representatives for Jackson ’s estate did not immediately respond to Fox News ’ request for comment .
Joe Exotic is currently serving time in connection with a murder - for - hire plot .
( Santa Rosa County Jail via AP , File )
The documentary sees those involved with Joe ’s story posit several theories as to who started the fire , with some even believing that Joe started it himself in an effort to destroy potentially damaging footage that was being housed in the recording studio for a potential reality show that was being filmed .
Joe has denied those rumors .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Joe is currently behind bars after being found guilty of hatching a murder - for - hire plot in which he paid $ 3,000 for one of the employees at the zoo to travel to Florida to kill his rival , Big Cat Rescue CEO Carole Baskin .

Doctor's Facebook post goes viral after officer gives her masks instead of speeding ticket: 'I burst into tears' .
2020-04-01 12:44:04 +00:00 .
Minnesota cardiologist Dr. Sarosh Janjua shares what the gesture meant to her on ' Fox amp ; Friends . '
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Dr. Sarosh Janjua , a cardiologist who was caught speeding by a Minnesota state trooper and was " issued " five brand new N95 masks instead of a ticket , said on “ Fox Friends ” on Wednesday that she “ needed to be reminded that ultimately it ’s not toilet paper and N95 masks that are going to save us , it ’s each other . ”
Janjua said she lives in Massachusetts and was working on temporary assignment in Minnesota last month .
On March 21 , Janjua was headed to Minneapolis after getting off work at Essentia Health in Duluth when she was pulled over by Trooper Brian Schwartz for going 85 mph in a 70 mph zone , The Minneapolis Star Tribune reported on Monday .
One week after she was pulled over , Janjua described what happened during the traffic stop in a Facebook post .
“ I waited for him to write me a ticket .
Instead , he told me he was going to let me off with a warning , ” Janjua wrote .
CORONAVIRUS : WHAT TO KNOW
She said he then handed her what she assumed was her license back ,
but were “ five N95 masks , from the supply the state had given him for his protection . ”
Doctors and nurses at U.S. hospitals treating coronavirus patients have reported a shortage of N95 masks , making them a priceless commodity .
“ I burst into tears .
And though it may just have been the cold wind , I think he teared up a little as well , before wishing me well and walking away , ” Janjua wrote in the post .
Speaking via FaceTime on Wednesday , Janjua said , “ It ’s been very isolating to take care of suspected COVID-19 patients .
“ It ’s hard to look at stories of selfishness and hoarding , ” she continued .
“ Whenever you turn on the news it seems like there are more stories of people clearing the shelves and keeping things for themselves rather than giving them away and , I think particularly at that time , I really needed to believe that we ’re going to stay together as human beings and I needed to be reminded that ultimately it ’s not toilet paper and N95 masks that are going to save us , it ’s each other . ”
Janjua ’s Facebook post has gone viral and , as of Wednesday , had more than 29,000 views and was shared more than 23,000 times .
Reacting to the response on social media , she said , “ I think the emotional and psychological health of this nation has declined quite a bit over the last couple of weeks especially and it can be very hard to just be locked up at home and just listen to the news and just look at all the scary numbers and we ’re not interacting the way we normally do to reassure ourselves about things .
“ I think people just needed to hear a good story , ” she continued .
“ They needed to hear that we are going to be there for each other . ”
Minnesota State Patrol thanked Janjua in a Facebook post on Sunday , writing , “ Thank you to Sarosh for her hard work and dedication .
Troopers are working hard during the pandemic and are thinking about all the first responders who are caring for Minnesotans during this critical time .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
“ It was humbling , ” Janjua continued .
“ I think state troopers and policemen , they often get a very bad rap simply for doing their jobs and I just think that it ’s time they got their due recognition . ”
Fox News ’ Robert Gearty contributed to this report .

NJ National Guardsman who died from coronavirus started showing symptoms only days earlier, family says .
2020-03-31 23:58:17 +00:00 .
President Trump leads the White House coronavirus task force briefing .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
A member of the New Jersey National Guard who died Saturday from the coronavirus began displaying symptoms just days before , his daughter said in an interview with Fox News .
Shandrea Hickok told Fox News that her father , Capt .
Douglas Linn Hickok , who was a drilling guardsman and physician ’s assistant for the National Guard , was in " great health " before he tested positive for COVID-19 .
NATIONAL GUARDSMAN IS 1ST US SERVICE MEMBER TO DIE FROM CORONAVIUS , ESPER ANNOUNCES
He had recently passed the Army ’s annual physical fitness test but had a history of lung cancer , his daughter said .
Hickok had received an MRI earlier in March to ensure he was still cancer - free .
In the past , the dye from the scan had caused him to get a fever and when it happened again , her father was not initially worried , she said .
But other symptoms developed rapidly and he checked into Lehigh Valley Hospital in the Poconos , in Pennsylvania , on March 21 .
He died a week later .
Hickock is the first U.S. service member to die from coronavirus .
Prior to getting infected with the virus , Hickok had attended a “ pre - scheduled ” National Guard training session on COVID-19 in Sea Girt , N.J.
The family does not know how , where or when Hickok became infected .
" All of us in the National Guard are grateful for his service to our nation , as a Citizen and as a Soldier , " Gen. Joseph Lengyel , Chief of the National Guard Bureau , said in a statement Tuesday .
" As our nation fights its greatest challenge in recent memory , we are all going to need to draw on our inner strength and resilience to win this war and comfort those in pain .
We will prevail -- and we each must bring our best selves to the task every day to overcome this as fast as possible for our great country . "
A third - generation military member , Hickok enlisted in the New Jersey National Guard medical unit in 2009 , according to his obituary .
He then moved to Maryland to work as a civilian physician assistant at Andrews Air force Base .
“ He was a patriot , ” his daughter said .
In 2017 , he moved to Pennsylvania and worked as an orthopedic physician assistant at a clinic .
Hickok held a Physician Assistant Medical degree with a specialty in orthopedic surgery from Cornell Medical School in New York City .
He was an avid baseball player and a " big fan of Fox News and was watching until the end , " his daughter said .
“ Sean Hannity was his favorite , ” she added .
“ He would text me the clips all day , he loved all of you . "
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
“ Fair and accurate news media was important to him , ” his obituary says .
“ Doug was loyal to his God , faith and country . ”

Oregon high school football coach who disarmed gunman awarded special honor .
2020-03-31 20:56:06 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
The Oregon high school football coach who disarmed a gunman and prevented a possible school shooting before embracing the suspect will be honored for his actions .
Keanon Lowe , a former wide receiver at the University of Oregon , will receive the Congressional Medal of Honor citizen distinction for heroism , the Congressional Medal of Honor Foundation said last week .
Lowe and five other honorees " exemplify the values embodied in the Medal of Honor , " the foundation said .
He was praised for his actions in May 2019 when he made a split - second decision to disarm a distraught student carrying a firearm at Parkrose High School in Portland .
He comforted the student -- later identified as Angel Granados Diaz -- until police arrived .
At the time , Lowe coached football and track at the school .
Keanon Lowe was hailed as a hero after disarming a student at the Portland high school where he coached track and football last year .
“ I lunged for the gun and we both had the gun , ” Lowe told “ Good Morning America ” last year .
“ We had four hands on the gun and students are running out of the back of the classroom and I ’m just trying to make sure that the end of the gun is n’t pointing towards where the students are running but also not pointed at myself . ”
Investigators said Diaz had mental health issues and only intended to hurt himself , the Oregonian reported .
He was sentenced last year to three years probation and mental health treatment .
“ I let him know that I was there for him .
I told him I was there to save him , " Lowe told KATU - TV last year .
" I was there for a reason , and this is a life worth living . "
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Lowe will share the Single Act of Heroism Award with Riley Howell , the 21 - year - old University of North Carolina at Charlotte student who tackled a gunman at his school .
Howell was posthumously donated a Purple Heart and Bronze Star by the Purple Heart Society for his actions .

Van Gogh painting stolen from Dutch museum closed by coronavirus .
2020-03-31 08:36:19 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
THE HAGUE , Netherlands ( AP ) - A painting by Dutch master Vincent van Gogh was stolen in an overnight smash - and - grab raid on a museum that was closed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus , police and the museum said Monday .
The Singer Laren museum east of Amsterdam said " The Parsonage Garden at Nuenen in Spring 1884 " by the Dutch master was taken in the early hours of Monday .
By early afternoon , all that could be seen from the outside of the museum was a large white panel covering a smashed door in the building 's glass facade .
This image released by the Gronninger Museum on Monday March 30 , 2020 , shows Dutch master Vincent van Gogh 's painting titled " The Parsonage Garden at Nuenen in Spring . "
( Groninger Museum via AP Photo )
Museum General Director Evert van Os said the institution that houses the collection of American couple William and Anna Singer is " angry , shocked , sad " at the theft .
The value of the work , which was on loan from the Groninger Museum in the northern Dutch city of Groningen , was not immediately known .
Van Gogh 's paintings , when they rarely come up for sale , fetch millions at auction .
CLICK FOR LATEST ON THE CORONAVIRUS
Police are investigating the theft .
" I 'm shocked and unbelievably annoyed that this has happened , " said Singer Laren museum director Jan Rudolph de Lorm .
Two people look at the glass door which was smashed during a break - in at the Singer Museum in Laren , Netherlands .
( AP Photo / Peter Dejong )
"
This beautiful and moving painting by one of our greatest artists stolen - removed from the community , " he added .
" It is very bad for the Groninger Museum , it is very bad for the Singer , but it is terrible for us all because art exists to be seen and shared by us , the community , to enjoy to draw inspiration from and to draw comfort from , especially in these difficult times . "
The 10 - by-22 - inch oil on paper painting shows a person standing in a garden surrounded by trees with a church tower in the background .
It dates to a time when the artist had moved back to his family in a rural area of the Netherlands and painted the life he saw there , including his famous work " The Potato Eaters , " in mostly somber tones .
Later , he moved to southern France , where he developed a far more colorful , vibrant style of painting as his health declined before his death in 1890 .
Police said in a statement that the thief or thieves smashed a glass door to get into the museum .
That set off an alarm that sent officers rushing to the museum but by the time they got there the painting and whoever stole it were gone .
A team including forensics and art theft experts was studying video footage and questioning neighbors .
Van Os said the museum 's security worked " according to protocol , " but he added : " Obviously we can learn from this . "
The Dutch government on March 12 banned large crowds among its measures to halt the spread of the virus , leading several museums to close temporarily .
Before the closure , the museum was hosting an exhibition titled " Mirror of the Soul " with works by artists ranging from Jan Toorop to Piet Mondrian , in cooperation with Amsterdam 's Rijksmuseum .
The Singer Laren 's collection has a focus on modernism such as neo - impressionism , pointillism , expressionism and cubism .
GET THE FOX NEWS APP
It is not the first high profile theft from the museum .
In 2007 , thieves stole seven works from its sculpture garden , including a bronze cast of " The Thinker " by Auguste Rodin .
The famous sculpture was recovered a few days later , missing a leg .

UFC champ Khabib Nurmagomedov stranded in Russia, title defense in jeopardy due to coronavirus pandemic .
2020-03-30 17:42:10 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on FoxNews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
UFC lightweight champion Khabib Nurmagomedov ’s title defense against Tony Ferguson at UFC 249 on April 18 may be in doubt .
Nurmagomedov revealed on Instagram Live on Monday that he is stuck in his home country of Russia due to the coronavirus pandemic .
He flew home to Dagestan after he learned that his fight would n’t take place in the United States and now , due to a travel ban in Russia , he is unable to leave .
BOXING CHAMP SUSPENDED OVER VIDEO INSTRUCTING HOW MEN SHOULD DEAL
WITH WOMEN DURING CORONAVIRUS QUARANTINE
" We were training in the ( American Kickboxing Academy ) without any information regarding the fight , where and how is it going to happen , " Nurmagomedov said according to a translation by RT Sport . "
Then the UFC told us that the fight 100 percent is n't happening in the States .
And they said that 99 percent that it will happen in ( the United Arab ) Emirates , Abu Dhabi . "
Around one month before the date of the fight , Nurmagomedov said he and his team decided to fly to the Emirates but , due to impending travel restrictions in the country , they returned home shortly after .
UFC president Dana White , who said the fight will go on despite the promotion being forced to cancel its last three events , also claims that the UFC wants to proceed with the event even if Nurmagomedov ca n't be on the card , according to the lightweight champion .
" So now I am hearing that they are looking to organize it with or without me .
OK , go ahead , " Nurmagomedov said .
" Everyone should follow the laws .
I am not against it , I know that fighters need to feed their families and pay their bills .
“ I know how hard it is for the fighter , ” he added .
“ Unless they fight they are n't getting any money .
I am even hearing that they are looking for an opponent for Tony , because he is in the States and I am here in Russia .
But I am here not on my own will . "
NEW JERSEY GOLFERS COLLECT SUPPLIES TO DONATE TO LOCAL HOSPITAL AMID CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK
According to ESPN , top contender Justin Gaethje is the replacement opponent who 's been offered to Ferguson , even though it has neither been agreed upon nor finalized .
The location for the event is also reportedly yet to be decided .
CLICK
HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
Nurmagomedov and Ferguson have never fought , despite previously being booked to do so four times .
The title fight was arguably the most anticipated matchup of 2020 .

Jon Bon Jovi discusses Prince Harry collaboration on Invictus Games song .
2020-03-30 12:47:00 +00:00 .
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking today in entertainment .
Jon Bon Jovi is lending a helping hand to Prince Harry .
The 58 - year - old rock star recently re - recorded his song " Unbroken , " originally used for a documentary , as a single for Prince Harry 's Invictus Games , featuring a choir from the games .
" I was called upon to write that song for a documentary in America , it came out late last year , called ' To Be of Service , ' " Bon Jovi told Entertainment Tonight . "
And though I had never served , it was going to be a daunting task .
I was the narrator , talking about soldiers with PTSD and service dogs .
Difficult song to write .
But even as I was writing it for this documentary , I thought on a parallel course about the Invictus Games and the British soldiers . "
PRINCE WILLIAM , KATE MIDDLETON ENCOURAGE MENTAL HEALTH AWARENESS
AMID ' UNSETTLING ' CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK
The Invictus Games are a series of adaptive sports competitions in the U.K. for disabled veterans .
The event was created by Harry , 35 .
" So I sent it to Prince Harry knowing that they had this choir , " continued Bon Jovi . "
And after months of getting up and through the changing hymn , he loved the idea . "
Then came the announcement that Harry and Markle , 38 , had chosen to " step back " from their royal duties , which Bon Jovi thought indicated the end of his partnership with the prince .
" But I got a call two days later saying , ' Oh , no , no , no , not only is it not falling apart
but it 's the first thing on his docket when he comes back .
We 're doing this , ' " said the " It 's My Life " singer .
QUEEN ELIZABETH ' ALWAYS PROTECTED ' HER SISTER PRINCESS MARGARET DESPITE MEDIA SCRUTINY , ROYAL BUTLER SAYS
He added : " So I went to England before COVID took over .
We went to the famed Abbey Road Studios and with the Invictus choir re - recorded the band 's song and released it today with them , for them , as a battle cry for all those men and women who have served . "
Coronavirus concerns have caused this year 's Invictus Games to be delayed until 2021 .
Prince Harry and Jon Bon Jovi collaborating on " Unbroken " for the Invictus Games .
( Photo by HANNAH MCKAY / POOL / AFP via Getty Images ) News recently broke that Markle and Harry have relocated from Canada to Los Angeles , but Bon Jovi said he did n't offer much in the way of advice to the royal duo upon their move .
" It 's not for me to give advice to a man like that .
They ’ve got it figured out , " Bon Jovi said .
" It was a real pleasure to work with him and to get to know him a little bit . "
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
" I ’ve met his brother before and I ’ve met his dad before .
I met his grandma before , " explained the musician .
" I ’ve performed for all of them over the years .
So this completed the circle .
I wish them both all the very best .
He ’s a sweetheart . "

Cuomo extends state lockdown, says normalcy may return with widespread testing .
2020-03-29 19:03:30 +00:00 .
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo provides updates on the coronavirus response .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced Sunday that he is extending a statewide lockdown that he first ordered earlier this month , forcing nonessential workers to remain at home due to the coronavirus outbreak .
The governor indicated that this could continue for the foreseeable future , at least until people are able to get tested on a larger scale .
CORONAVIRUS COULD BE SLOWING IN NEW YORK ACCORDING TO ' EARLY SIGNALS IN PUBLIC DATA , ' EXPERTS SAY
" We put in place the New York PAUSE program ; today I am going to extend it to April 15 , the directive that nonessential state workforce continue to work from home , " Cuomo said at a Sunday press briefing .
" We ’re doing it in two - week intervals because every day is a new day and we ’ll see what happens day to day .
But I think it ’s not even questionable today that we ’re going to need two more weeks of nonessential workers . "
Cuomo announced the development of a “ less intrusive saliva and short nasal swab test ” for coronavirus that could be given by health care workers that may be available as early as next week , heralding this as a step in the right direction .
“ People ask when is this over , I think the testing , you tell me when they come up with an inexpensive home test or point of care test that can be brought to volume , I think that ’s probably when you see a real return to normalcy in the workforce , " he said .
“ If you could test today millions of people , you could send them to work tomorrow . ”
CUOMO SAYS NEW YORK CONCERNED CDC CORONAVIRUS CRISIS GUIDELINES FOR PPE ARE NOT ADEQUATE
Cuomo then delivered a message of solidarity to fellow New Yorkers , after President Trump ’s suggestion of a possible federal quarantine for the New York area , as well as a Rhode Island order not to allow New Yorkers into their state .
" I know we feel under attack , " Cuomo said .
"
No one is going to attack New York unfairly , and no one is going to deprive New York of what it needs . "
Trump ended up not ordering a quarantine , and Rhode Island repealed its order .
Cuomo also addressed the struggles families will face in the coming weeks with the Easter and Passover holidays , which are typically celebrated with religious services and family gatherings .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP " Worship the way you can , but the gatherings are just not a good idea , ” he said , noting that the cluster of cases in New Rochelle , N.Y. , came about due to religious gatherings .
On the same subject , Cuomo did announce the good news that the “ patient zero ” in New Rochelle has left the hospital after extensive treatment .

4 Holland America cruise passengers die on ship; 138 sick with 'influenza-like' symptoms .
2020-03-27 18:12:00 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Four “ older " passengers aboard a cruise ship operated by Holland America have passed away after exhibiting influenza - like symptoms , the cruise line confirmed Friday .
The Zaandam , which is currently off the coast of Panama , has a total of 138 passengers and crew reporting illnesses , with two testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday .
COAST GUARD
EVACUATES SICK CRUISE PASSENGERS IN FLORIDA
The ship originally departed from Buenos Aires , Argentina , on March 7 , was scheduled for a 14 - day cruise of South America , with plans to disembark in San Antonio , Chile , on March 21 .
By March 13 , however , Holland America announced it would temporarily be suspending all sailings for at least 30 days , and ending its current cruises in progress " as quickly as possible . ”
Holland America said the ship was originally cleared to dock in Punta Arenas , Chile , to disembark passengers for flights home , but was ultimately “ not permitted to do so . ”
The Zaandam instead docked in Valparaiso , Chile , but only for supplies and medicine .
" Our thoughts and prayers are with their families and we are doing everything we can to support them during this difficult time , " wrote Holland America of the four older guests who passed away .
Holland America then deployed the Rotterdam liner to rendezvous with the Zaandam to provide extra supplies , staff , COVID-19 test kids and other support as needed .
The two ships made the rendezvous on March 26 , and medical supplies and staff were transported to the Zaandam .
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
On Friday , Holland America said it would be transferring healthy guests to the Rotterdam in conjunction with CDC guidelines .
“ Only those who have not been ill will be moved , and health screenings will be conducted before transferring , ” Holland America wrote in a statement .
“ Priority for the first guests to transfer will be given to those on Zaandam with inside staterooms and who are over 70 .
Once aboard Rotterdam , all guests will continue to remain in their staterooms until disembarkation .
Any guests who are currently ill , or in isolation as a close contact , and all crew will remain on Zaandam . ”
Included among those feeling ill are 53 passengers and 85 crew members .
There were a total of 1,243 guests and 586 crew on board .
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
The cruise line also confirmed the death of four “ older guests , ” though Holland America did not say where they were from , or whether the two positive COVID-19 cases were among them .
" Our thoughts and prayers are with their families and we are doing everything we can to support them during this difficult time , " wrote Holland America .
The ships are now organizing passage to Fort Lauderdale , Fla. , via the Panama Canal .
CLICK HERE FOR FOX NEWS ' CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
Holland America , a subsidiary of Carnival Cruises , had originally announced the temporary suspension of all sailings on March 13 .
Cruises that departed before that time were to head to ports to allow guests to disembark and return home , a Carnival spokesperson said last week .
Both the CDC and the U.S. State Department have since advised that Americans avoid traveling by cruise ship .

Space Force makes its first launch as military satellite lifts off from Cape Canaveral .
2020-03-26 22:14:54 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
The Space Force made its first launch on Thursday when the U.S. military 's Advanced Extremely High Frequency ( AEHF-6 ) satellite lifted off from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station .
The satellite blasted into the Florida sky atop a United Launch Alliance ( ULA )
Atlas V 551 rocket at 4:18 p.m. ET .
The launch window had opened at 2:57 p.m. ET , but the launch time was pushed back while engineers dealt with a ground hydraulics issue .
AEHF-6 is the sixth and final satellite in the Space Force ’s AEHF constellation .
“ AEHF satellites provide global , survivable , protected communications capabilities for strategic command and tactical warfighters operating on ground , sea and air platforms , ” ULA explained on its website .
AMID CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK , SPACEX LAUNCH OF ARGENTINIAN SATELLITE POSTPONED
The AEHF-6 proceeded despite the fallout from the coronavirus outbreak .
A SpaceX satellite launch that had been scheduled for later this month has been postponed amid the pandemic .
A United Launch Alliance Atlas V rocket lifts off from launch complex 41 at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station with a payload of a high frequency satellite Thursday , March 26 , 2020 , in Cape Canaveral , Fla. Built by Lockheed Martin , this U.S. military spacecraft will provide highly - secure communications .
( AP Photo / John Raoux )
The SAOCOM1B satellite is being launched for Argentina ’s Space Agency , the Comisión Nacional de Actividades Espaciales ( CONAE ) .
The launch atop a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket had originally been scheduled for March 30 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station .
Argentinian officials cited travel restrictions as the reason for the delayed launch of the Earth observation satellite .
CORONAVIRUS MAY DELAY NASA 'S RETURN TO THE MOON
The impact of the coronavirus outbreak on space exploration programs is being closely followed .
Earlier this month , for example , the European Space Agency and the Russian space agency Roscosmos announced that the launch of the second ExoMars mission is being postponed to 2022 , in part because of the pandemic .
CAPE CANAVERAL , FLORIDA - MARCH 25 , 2020 :
A United Launch Alliance Atlas V rocket with an Advanced Extremely High Frequency ( AEHF ) military communications satellite for a payload is seen the day before its scheduled March 26 , 2020 launch at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station .
( Paul Hennessy / Echoes Wire / Barcroft Media via Getty Images )
The European Space Agency also said Tuesday that it is putting eight of its spacecraft into hibernation as it scales down operations during the coronavirus outbreak .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
NASA has also temporarily suspended work on the $ 10 billion James Webb Space Telescope in California due to the coronavirus , putting its spring 2021 target launch date in jeopardy .
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers .

Trump rips 'LameStream Media' for trying to keep the country closed: 'People want to get back to work ASAP!' .
2020-03-25 20:40:32 +00:00 .
Trump says Americans want to return to work ; reaction and analysis on ' The Five . '
President Trump took aim at the media on Wednesday , accusing them of wanting to keep the country closed amid the coronavirus outbreak in order to hurt his reelection .
Trump has repeatedly expressed his concern that " the cure " of the outbreak could be worse than the disease itself as millions of Americans are out of work due to the shutdown of businesses in order to combat the spread of the virus .
The president went after " the LameStream Media " on Twitter .
60 PERCENT OF AMERICANS APPROVE OF TRUMP 'S
HANDLING OF CORONAVIRUS : GALLUP POLL " The LameStream Media is the dominant force in trying to get me to keep our Country closed as long as possible in the hope that it will be detrimental to my election success .
The real people want to get back to work ASAP .
We will be stronger than ever before ! "
CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
During the Fox News virtual town hall , Trump expressed hope that the economy would be heading towards normal by Easter Sunday , on April 12 .
" I would love to have the country opened up and just raring to go by Easter , " Trump said in the Rose Garden .
" If we delay this thing out , you 're going to lose more people than you 're losing with the situation as we know it . "
Critics , meanwhile , shared their concerns that opening the country too soon will only strengthen the coronavirus outbreak and further slam the health care system and hurt the economy .

Celtics' Enes Kanter was worried about coronavirus contraction after NBA's season suspension .
2020-03-25 13:44:25 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Boston Celtics ’ Enes Kanter said he was fearful that he may have contracted the coronavirus after learning that the season was suspended when the Utah Jazz ’s Rudy Gobert tested positive .
Kanter said on his NBC Sports podcast “ The Enes Kanter Show ” on Tuesday that he was shocked to learn that the NBA had suspended the season because of the outbreak of COVID-19 , a revelation that came just before the Celtics game against the Milwaukee Bucks on March 12 .
NBA STAR KARL - ANTHONY TOWNS REVEALS
MOM IS IN MEDICALLY INDUCED COMA , BELIEVES SHE HAS CORONAVIRUS “ I was watching this game on TV , I think it was Dallas against Denver , and at the same time I ’m , of course , looking at the news and what ’s going on and stuff and then , the news just broke out , they said , ‘ The NBA just got suspended . ’
And I ’m like , ‘ What ? ! ’ ”
he said .
Kanter said the game was canceled and the following day the team had a meeting where they were told that they were heading back to Boston and should remain home until they were told otherwise .
76ERS , DEVILS EMPLOYEES WILL NO LONGER HAVE SALARIES TEMPORARILY REDUCED
DUE TO CORONAVIRUS AFTER BACKLASH
The reality of the situation set in after news came out that Gobert was the first NBA player to test positive for COVID-19 , someone Kanter had played twice in the last 10 days .
“ I thought to myself , ‘ We played against those guys 10 days before .
Then I ’m like , ‘ OK that game , did I guard him ?
It does n’t matter if I guarded him or not , are we touching the same basketball ?
So , it was a lot of questions going through your mind and stuff .
But even if you do n’t have it , you worry about if your teammates got it or not , ” he said .
Kanter said the whole team was tested and that he ’s remained home since coming back to Boston .
CLICK HERE TO GET MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM “ I think this is the best time to educate yourself , ” Kanter said about utilizing self - quarantine time .
“ Do something you have never done before . ”
So far , 14 players have tested positive for coronavirus including Kanter ’s teammate Marcus Smart .

The first virtual NASCAR race was a smash hit, Fox Sports commits to full season during coronavirus crisis .
2020-03-25 12:32:56 +00:00 .
Fox Sports will be airing the first race of the online eNASCAR
iRacing Pro Invitational Series on FS1 .
The online race is in place of the canceled Homestead - Miami NASCAR Cup race , which was axed due to the coronavirus .
NASCAR ’s shift into the virtual world was a success .
The first race of the eNASCAR iRacing Pro Invitational Series that was organized to fill the void created by the suspended NASCAR season pulled in 903,000 viewers on Fox Sports One on Sunday , making it the most - watched sports broadcast on cable that day .
The numbers were way down from the over 4.5 million viewers the last three NASCAR races before the hiatus had , but were more than enough to make it the highest - rated televised eSports event ever .
The network has now committed to carrying the entire season , which will continue until NASCAR gets back on track sometime after May 3 when coronavirus restrictions are eased , with the broadcast team of Mike Joy , Jeff Gordon and Larry McReynolds calling the races .
The inaugural 100 - lap event featured drivers from the NASCAR Cup , Xfinity and Truck series -- including Kyle Busch , Joey Logano and Jimmie Johnson -- competing on an iRacing simulator and saw Denny Hamlin hold off Dale Earnhardt Jr. to take the checkered flag on a digital version of Homestead - Miami speedway .
The drivers were racing from remote locations in their homes and garages and were allowed one crew member to help them out .
Denny Hamlin won despite driving shoeless and having a bottle of soda that was handed to him by his daughter spray all over his hands and a $ 40,000 driving rig .
The next race is scheduled for Sunday , March 29 at 1 pm ET at Texas Motor Speedway , where Hamlin won in the real world last year .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

Spain's coronavirus death toll surges past China .
2020-03-25 12:24:38 +00:00 .
Is there a risk of airborne transmission of COVID-19 from open air testing centers ?
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Spain surged past China to now have the world ’s second - highest tally of coronavirus deaths after seeing a 738 spike overnight — its highest so far in one day .
With at least 3,434 fatalities since the COVID-19 outbreak , the Iberian nation now has a death toll that is more than half of Italy 's , which as of Wednesday morning stood at 6,820 .
Spain ’s Ministry of Health announced on Wednesday a 20 percent spike in infections from a day earlier , to at least 47,610 .
More than 5,000 people have recovered , officials said .
People walk past a poster that reads ‘ I want you to stay home ’ , by artist TvBoy amid a lockdown in Barcelona , Spain , Tuesday , March 24 , 2020 .
( AP ) CLICK HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
“ ( It ’s ) an increase equivalent to the one we saw in the last days , and lower than the ones we were observing last week , ” said Fernando Simon , director of the Center for Coordination of Sanitation Emergencies , according to El Pais .
“ These increases are variable to the different communities , but the evolution of the epidemic in which we are approaching the peak does not go hand - in - hand with the overload in the hospital system , because it takes a few days from the first symptoms . ”
Spain now stands behind China – where the virus was first detected late last year – Italy and the United States for most coronavirus infections .
According to data collected by Johns Hopkins University , China has seen more than 81,660 infections , while Italy had at least 69,176 as of Wednesday morning .
The United States is closing in fast with more than 55,225 infections .
SPAIN TO PROBE BODIES FOUND ABANDONED IN SENIOR HOMES AS ICE RINK BECOMES CORONAVIRUS MAKESHIFT MORGUE
The coronavirus outbreak in Spain has put a tragic strain on its health care system , forcing officials to convert hotels into makeshift hospitals .
An ice rink in Madrid was turned into a morgue after funeral homes in the Spanish capital became overwhelmed with the rising death toll .
A patient , center , is transferred to a medicalized hotel during the COVID-19 outbreak in Madrid , Spain , Tuesday , March 24 , 2020 .
( AP )
More than 3,100 people are currently hospitalized under intensive care , according to the El Pais newspaper .
The Spanish government declared a state of emergency earlier this month , which effectively locked down the country and confined residents to their homes in a bid to slow the virus ’ spread .
US COUPLE QUARANTINED IN SPAIN HOTEL AMID CORONAVIRUS SAY IT COULD BE A LOT WORSE
Spain ’s interior minister revealed Tuesday that police have arrested at least 929 people for disobeying the declaration .
A poster reading in Spanish the hashtag " # IstayAtHome " hangs in windowshop of a closed shop in downtown Madrid , Spain , Tuesday , March 24 , 2020 .
More than 1.5 billion around the world have been told to stay in their homes .
( AP ) Fernando Grande - Marlaska told reporters at a news conference that more than 130 of the arrests happened that day alone , El Pais reported .
Meanwhile , prosecutors announced this week they were investigating claims that bodies of elderly people were found abandoned inside senior residence homes .
Spain ’s prime minister is said to be asking the country ’s parliament to extend the state of emergency to April 11 .
Graham Keeley and The Associated Press contributed to this report .

Driver for Brazil's Bolsonaro hospitalized with respiratory illness as coronavirus protests continue .
2020-03-24 18:32:54 +00:00 .
A driver for Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro was rushed to the hospital Tuesday with a respiratory illness and was tested for the coronavirus , according to a report .
The report comes as protesters around the country banged their pots and pans on their balconies for the fifth night in a row as a sign of protest against Bolsonaro 's response amid the global pandemic .
WHICH WORLD LEADERS , US POLITICIANS HAVE BEEN EXPOSED TO THE CORONAVIRUS ?
The unidentified driver was transported to the hospital in Brasília , the federal capital of Brazil , and waiting for his test results to come back , the Correio Braziliense newspaper reported .
At least 23 people in Bolsonaro ’s circle , including his U.S. ambassador , chief foreign policy adviser and communications chief , have contracted the novel virus , The Guardian reported .
All were members of a delegation that traveled to Mar - a - Lago for a dinner on March 7 – prompting fears President Trump or Vice President Mike Pence had been exposed to the virus .
U.S. President Donald Trump shakes hands with Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro before attending a working dinner at the Mar - a - Lago resort in Palm Beach , Florida , U.S. , March 7 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 7 , 2020 .
( Reuters )
The communications chief , Fabio Wajngarten , was photographed with Trump and Pence at the same event .
He became the first in Bolsonaro ’s circle to test positive for COVID-19 just days later on March 12 , Axios reported .
Bolsonaro himself denied reports he tested positive for the coronavirus but has refused to publish his medical test results .
He had rejected health official ’s advice to self - quarantine after his trip to Florida – and instead shook hands and took selfies with a crowd of supporters .
At least 34 people have died from the coronavirus in Brazil out of the 1,965 confirmed cases , according to Johns Hopkins University Tuesday afternoon .
In an interview Saturday , Bolsonaro slammed the governors of states including Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo for ordering large - scale quarantines , saying the measures were irresponsible and fueled a “ climate of terror , ” The Guardian reported .
“ It ’s an excessive dose of medicine – and too much medicine becomes poison , ” Bolsonaro said .
“ I ’m the manager of the team and the team is playing very well . ”
Meanwhile , Brazilian Health Minister , Luiz Henrique Mandetta , told NPR last week that the government ’s healthcare system , grappling with shortages of intensive care beds and other protective medical equipment , would likely collapse by the end of April .
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP “ Scientists around the world are fighting to find a treatment for Covid-19 .
In Brazil , meanwhile , the current government ’s incompetence is found to be incurable , ” the conservative Estado de São Paulo newspaper wrote on Friday .
“ We are being invaded by an invisible enemy .
We need people who are capable of leading the nation , ” Janaina Paschoal , a rightwing congresswoman and once Bolsonaro ’s vice - presidential running mate , also said , according to The Guardian .

Kansas woman says husband died of coronavirus after belated test .
2020-03-24 16:21:00 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
The wife of a Kansas man who died over the weekend of COVID-19 wrote about his suffering in anguished Facebook posts that describe how he went to two walk - in clinics and a hospital before doctors would test him for the coronavirus .
The test determined Dennis Wilson , 74 , of Lenexa , had COVID-19 , Joanna Wilson wrote .
Dennis Wilson , a retired public school superintendent , died Saturday morning -- five days after the virus test came back positive , she said .
He was ill for more than two weeks before he died .
“ The fight is over , ” she wrote after her husband ’s death , according to the Kansas City Star .
“ I am absolutely heartbroken !
It has been an indescribably horrible week of immeasurable suffering on the part of the love of my life and then certainly on the part of our three children and our 6 grandchildren who could only watch helplessly from a distance . ”
A pedestrian crosses the street at the University of Kansas Hospital in Kansas City , Kan. Friday , March 20 , 2020 .
Almost two weeks after Kansas ' first coronavirus case was admitted to the hospital , there have now been 44 confirmed cases across the state .
( AP Photo / Charlie Riedel )
KANSAS REPORTS FIRST CORONAVIRUS
DEATH
Others across the country have complained about similar experiences with the coronavirus testing , or the lack of it .
Wilson had flu - like symptoms for a week before going to an urgent care clinic on March 12 , his wife said on Facebook .
She said her husband was “ given the routine ‘ go home , rest , and drink plenty of fluids . ’
No testing . ”
“ On Friday evening we went to urgent care again , this time a KUMC urgent care , ” she said .
“ Same thing ‘ go home . ’
However this time he was tested for influenza A and B , both of which were negative . ”
Sunday night , Wilson went to the hospital .
His oxygen level was low and he had pneumonia , his wife said .
KANSAS GOVERNOR ’S DECISION TO CLOSE ALL SCHOOLS SEES GOP PUSHBACK
“ The doctor suspected ( he ) has Covid-19 although he did n’t meet the criteria for testing , ” she said , adding that the doctor was “ doing everything possible to push things through . ”
She said the test was finally administered after he was transferred to the hospital ’s ICU unit at another location .
Kansas reported Monday 79 coronavirus cases and two deaths .
The Star reported receiving an email from Luke Wilson after his father ’s death .
He said that just before his father got sick he was going to the Home Depot and tiling the bathroom floor .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
“ Dennis was technically elderly but pretty damn healthy for a man in his 70s , ” the son said , according to the paper .
“ The virus is stealth , isolating and cruel ; seemingly coming out of nowhere , infecting him early in the outbreak without high - risk exposure or travel .
We were unprepared to handle this enemy and my beautiful father paid the ultimate price . ”

NY FreshDirect employee on 1st day of quarantine: 'Just stay home' .
2020-03-23 17:48:39 +00:00 .
David Lee Miller reports from Manhattan as the stay - at - home order continues and COVID-19 cases climb .
On the first day of New York ’s historic statewide stay - home order , the message from one FreshDirect delivery person ( who did n’t want to be named ) was clear : Things are going to be fine , if people would just stay home .
By around 10:30 a.m. , the full - time employee said the truck had already made “ a ton of deliveries ” in the county just north of New York City and that there was plenty more work to be done before the workday was over .
Customers shop at a fruit and vegetable street cart while wearing protective masks due to COVID-19 concerns , Monday , March 23 , 2020 , in New York .
( AP Photo / John Minchillo )
GROCERY SHOPPING DURING THE OUTBREAK : HOW TO STAY SAFE
The worker 's day had mostly included stops to those in the most serious of need , like the elderly and disabled , but included “ all kinds of people . ”
“ It feels good to be helping out , ” the FreshDirect employee said .
“ At the same time , you do n’t know who ’s got what .
You ’ve got ta stay away from people … I do n't know .
“ It ’s mainly toilet paper , ” the worker added .
People are getting a lot of prepared meals , as well , “ but mainly a lot of toilet and paper towels . "
“ No one wants to go to the supermarket anymore , " the worker said .
“ No one wants to go to the supermarket anymore , " the FreshDirect employee said .
( Don Emmert / AFP via Getty Images ) CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
As of 8 p.m. Sunday , residents of New York state were required to practice mandatory six - foot social distancing if they had to go outside , and all non - essential businesses were closed ( among other things ) as part of Governor Andrew Cuomo 's “ New York State on PAUSE ” executive order .
The governor said previously “ we ’re all under quarantine now . ”
Still , this essential worker ’s outlook was overwhelmingly positive , as the employee felt lucky to be among those who are still working , seeing as millions more around the world were not nearly as fortunate .
“ They ’re leaning on us heavy , ” the worker admitted , “ but people are giving tips . ”
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
Part of the day - to - day duties now involve taking plenty of extra precautions , too .
" FreshDirect provides us with sanitizer , they provide us with wipes .
We ’ve just got to keep everything sanitized . ”
A train conductor walks through the virtually empty Grand Central Terminal on March 22 , 2020 , in New York City .
The " New York State on PAUSE " executive order , a 10 - point policy to assure uniform safety for everyone , went into effect at 8 p.m. on Sunday .
( Photo by Gary Hershorn / Getty Images )
The employee takes these precautions seriously , adding that they 're easy enough for everyone to understand .
“ Keep your hands sanitized , wash your hands , bathe .
You know ?
That ’s all .
“ Even though I ’m out here , I still take precautions , ” the worker added .
CLICK
HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
“ If you do n’t have to come outside , just stay home .
I know it ’s boring , ” the employee lamented , “ But , you know , we got ta do what we got ta do to stay safe .
So it ’s best to just stay home , buy food , rent movies , you know , and chill , " said the FreshDirect worker .
Then it started snowing .

Taliban, Afghan government held Skype call on prisoner releases, officials say .
2020-03-23 01:10:58 +00:00 .
Fox News senior foreign affairs correspondent Greg Palkot interviews Afghan president Ashraf Ghani .
Amid a recent warming of relations , the Taliban and the Afghan government held a “ virtual ” meeting to discuss prisoner releases on Sunday , according to officials .
The two sides spoke for two hours in a Skype meeting facilitated by the U.S. and Qatar .
Under a Taliban peace agreement signed by the U.S. last month , the Afghan government was to release 5,000 prisoners before intra - Afghan talks began .
In exchange , the Taliban would release 1,000 Afghani prisoners .
But , one day after the peace deal was signed , Afghan President Ashraf Ghani rejected the notion of releasing Afghan prisoners as a precondition for peace negotiations .
The impasse threatened the historic peace agreement which included the withdrawal of the bulk of foreign forces from Afghanistan after 18 years of fighting .
AFGHAN GOVERNMENT
TO RELEASE 1,500 TALIBAN PRISONERS , MAJOR STEP IN PEACE NEGOTIATIONS On March 10 , Ghani agreed to release 1,500 prisoners as a precondition to talks with the Taliban -- and an additional 500 prisoners every two weeks after talks began until the number reached 5,000 .
It was unclear whether the Taliban would accept the deal , as they previously had refused to speak to the Afghan government until all prisoners were released .
" Everyone knows clearly that the threat of Coronavirus makes the release of prisoners urgent , " U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad tweeted .
“ All sides reaffirmed their firm commitment to reducing violence , inter - Al - Afghani negotiations , and a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire .
We also agreed on the next technical meeting in the next couple of days , ” Khalilzad added .
“ Everyone clearly understands the coronavirus threat makes prisoner releases that much more urgent , ” he said .
“ All sides conveyed their strong commitment to a reduction of violence , intra - Afghan negotiations , and a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire . ”
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Taliban ’s Doha office spokesman Suhail Shaheen confirmed the meeting on Twitter but stressed it was only about the release of prisoners .
The Afghan government and the Taliban have sparred often over the past few days , including a storming of the Afghan military base on Friday , which investigators blamed on the insurgent group .

Hannity to Biden: Stop fundraising off and politicizing the coronavirus .
2020-03-23 00:39:55 +00:00 .
Former Vice President Biden is confused yet again .
As the country comes together to battle the COVID-19 pandemic , Biden seems to think that it was all President Trump ’s fault .
In a recent statement , he accuses the president of “ dithering on preparing ” for the pandemic , and “ lying ” about the federal government ’s response .
PETER NAVARRO :
CORONAVIRUS – HOW BUSINESSES ARE STEPPING UP , COLLABORATING WITH TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Per usual , Biden is struggling with reality .
So let ’s take a walk down memory lane .
On Jan. 21 , the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was diagnosed in the United States .
Just 10 days later , on Jan. 31 , President Trump declared a public health emergency , implemented quarantines and announced a ban on travel to and from China .
On the very same day , Biden called the president ’s response “ hysterical xenophobia ” , and “ fear - mongering ” .
To this day , Biden is STILL against travel bans of any kind — even though Dr. Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , said the bans saved us from untold amounts of suffering .
In the days and weeks after Jan. 31 , the Trump administration organized a massive public - private partnership , implemented brand new drive - up testing sites , engaged the U.S. military for support , cut red tape across the board to speed up research and development , and declared a national emergency .
My message to Joe Biden is simple : If you refuse to be a part of the solution , you might consider heading to a church ( reminder – it ’s Sunday , not “ Super Thursday ” ) , and pray to … “ you know the thing . ”
The response is unprecedented , but pandemics are not .
In April 2009 , during the H1N1 outbreak ( or N1H1 , as Biden mistakenly called it ) , Obama ’s Health and Human Services Department quickly declared a public health emergency .
However , the Obama / Biden administration failed to declare a national emergency until October 2009 .
By that point , over 1,000 Americans had been killed by the disease and tens of thousands more were infected .
In the first year of the H1N1 pandemic , nearly 13,000 Americans lost their lives .
Ultimately , over 60 million Americans contracted the virus , and hundreds of thousands were hospitalized .
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR OPINION NEWSLETTER
The Obama / Biden administration NEVER implemented a mandatory quarantine .
The Obama / Biden administration NEVER enacted a travel ban .
The Obama / Biden administration NEVER created drive - up testing sites .
Someone might want to remind Vice President Biden .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Clearly , he ’s does n’t remember his administration ’s lackluster response in 2009 , or perhaps , he still does n’t understand the seriousness of a worldwide pandemic .
Because now , instead of lending support , he ’s using this crisis as a political weapon .
In fact , his campaign is fundraising off of COVID-19 .
Yes , Biden is actually trying to raise money in the middle of a pandemic .
My message to Joe Biden is simple : If you refuse to be a part of the solution , you might consider heading to a virtual church ( reminder – it ’s Sunday , not “ Super Thursday ” ) , and pray to … “ you know the thing ” ( God the Creator of everything ) .
Or , perhaps , you could just ask your son , Hunter “ Zero experience ” Biden , for some of his millions , so you can travel the world , and let the adults respond to this crisis in a serious manner .
By the way , if you ’re wondering who to blame for the outbreak , ask your son .
I hear he knows a lot about the country of China .
And while you ’re at it , you can ask them how Hunter got that lucrative deal with the Bank of China .
CLICK HERE FOR MORE FROM SEAN HANNITY

Germany's Angela Merkel in quarantine after doctor tests positive for coronavirus .
2020-03-22 18:45:17 +00:00 .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel was informed of the doctor ’s test shortly after holding a news conference announcing new measures to curb the spread of coronavirus .
Shortly after announcing new measures in Germany to curb the spread of coronavirus , Chancellor Angela Merkel has gone into quarantine after a doctor she recently had contact with tested positive for the virus .
A spokesperson for Merkel said the chancellor , who is 65 , had received a precautionary vaccine Friday against pneumococcal infection .
The doctor who administered the vaccine to her later tested positive for COVID-19 .
WHAT COUNTRIES HAVE NOT DECLARED ANY KNOWN CASES OF CORONAVIRUS ?
Merkel 's spokesman , Steffen Seibert , said she was informed about the doctor 's test shortly after holding a news conference Sunday announcing new measures to curb the spread of the virus .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel attends the weekly cabinet meeting at the Chancellery in Berlin , Germany , Wednesday , March 18 , 2020 .
( Michael Kappeler / DPA via AP , Pool )
Seibert added that Merkel would undergo " regular tests " in the coming days and continue with her work from home for the time being .
Merkel had earlier expressed her gratitude to Germans who were following the rules on social distancing , saying it was important to remain at about five feet apart to reduce the likelihood of infection .
GERMAN MOM INFECTED WITH CORONAVIRUS USES TWITTER DIARY TO UPDATE WORLD ON HER CONDITION
In remarks last week , the German chancellor said the country has not faced a challenge like the coronavirus outbreak since World War II and every person in Germany must help protect those most vulnerable to illness .
People keep distance as they queue on a small weekly market in Frankfurt , Germany , early Saturday , March 21 , 2020 .
( AP Photo / Michael Probst )
“ Let me tell you : This is serious .
Take it seriously , too , ” Merkel said in a speech aired by several public and private TV stations .
“ Germany has an excellent health system , perhaps one of the best in the world , ” she said .
“ But our hospitals , too , would be completely overwhelmed if too many patients would be delivered in too short a time . ”
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP Germany had 23,974 confirmed virus cases as of Sunday afternoon , the fifth - highest number in the world , according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University .
Among all the people with the virus in the country , 92 have died , the university 's tally said .
The Associated Press contributed to this report .

Recovered Florida coronavirus patient urges young people to follow 'isolation protocols' .
2020-03-21 13:15:33 +00:00 .
Kaelyn Sheedy shares her story of testing positive for COVID-19 and her recovery from it .
Young people may be less at risk of contracting coronavirus , but they must still follow crucial " isolation protocols , " a recovered Florida patient urged Saturday .
Appearing on " Fox Friends Weekend , " 29 - year - old Kaelyn Sheedy -- the first to contract the virus in Tampa -- said she believes she become infected when traveling in Milan , Italy during a two - week trip to Europe .
" I left the day before there was a really big outbreak and my guess would be maybe , you know , the transportation , the airport , somewhere there , " she said .
CLICK HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE Sheedy , a sports massage therapist , said she started to feel symptoms the day before she was supposed to return to the United States .
On her flight to New York City , she had a fever .
" And that was my first indication , " she said .
" And then ... by the time I got to the hotel , I was coughing up a green mucus and that immediately indicated that there was some type of respiratory infection , and I called the CDC then . "
But getting tested was difficult at that time .
" I think at the time it was , you know , such a new thing for the U.S. , " she said .
" There [ were ] very few cases ... "
Sheedy said she regrets flying on to Tampa when she was sick , exposing people to the virus .
"
But , I was cleared to fly back to Tampa , and when I got to Florida , I really pressed the Florida Health Department to test me as soon as possible . "
Although she became asymptomatic the last four or five days of her two - week quarantine , she knows the impact of the virus on different people is " very unpredictable . "
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Young people may think they are less at risk during the pandemic , but Sheedy said it 's " very important " to protect more vulnerable people by practicing social distancing and following " isolation protocols and quarantine rules . "
" And , you know , that 's difficult for a lot of the younger generation , " she added .
Sheedy has fully recovered and been cleared by the state heallth department .

Amid coronavirus pandemic, N95 mask listings on Amazon flooded with fake reviews .
2020-03-20 19:45:08 +00:00 .
Bill Hemmer provides a coronavirus country comparison showing where cases are rising and translates the domestic virus story
Although Amazon has taken steps to ban countless scam products that claim to cure or treat coronavirus , the retailer is still flooded with third - party sellers using bogus reviews and other manipulative methods to sell fake N95 masks to panicked people .
A Gizmodo scrape of 75 products returned from a search for “ N95 Medical Masks ” on Amazon revealed thousands of “ verified purchase ” reviews across 13 different products that were likely generated by bots or were plagiarized from completely unrelated products .
The problem of fake reviews is nothing new for the Seattle - based company , of course .
A British consumer report in April 2019 found that many tech products were being boosted by fake reviews .
Just 24 pairs of headphones contained 10,000 reviews from unverified purchasers , a strong sign of being fake .
HIV DRUGS DON'T WORK AS CORONAVIRUS TREATMENT , CLINICAL TRIAL REVEALS
Andrea Wyatt of Inglewood , Calif. , wears a mask as she collects her concessions at the Paramount Drive - In Theatres , Thursday , March 19 , 2020 , in Paramount , Calif.
( AP Photo / Chris Pizzello )
Last March , for the first time ever , the Federal Trade Commission took an Amazon seller to court for allegedly purchasing fake reviews to boost a product on the platform .
Sen. Edward Markey , D - Mass. , sent the FTC a letter that urged the agency to crack down on online scams related to COVID-19 .
" The FTC should not allow any consumer to suffer from a scam or predatory business practice during this public health emergency , " the letter states .
Saoud Khalifah , the founder and CEO of Fakespot , a firm using machine learning to find fake reviews and fraud as a way to make online shopping more transparent , told Gizmodo the third - party sellers " are using fake reviews to pump their product when people search for antiviral masks .
Our system gives all the aforementioned examples F and D grade for fraud and people should be wary buying them . ”
CHLOROQUINE : WHAT TO KNOW ABOUT POTENTIAL CORONAVIRUS TREATMENT
According to Gizmodo , Fakespot uses a database of over 6 billion reviews to train a machine learning model to “ recognize patterns of inauthenticity and deception ” in Amazon listings .
Fox News reached out to Amazon for comment on this story .
Amazon told sellers last week that the platform would be blocking new listings for face masks , hand sanitizer , or other coronavirus - related products .
This week , the tech giant said warehouses would only be receiving shipments of “ household staples , medical supplies , and other high - demand products ” until April 5 .
GET THE FOX NEWS APP

US Census Bureau suspends field operations for two weeks amid COVID-19 outbreak .
2020-03-20 19:36:44 +00:00 .
The U.S. Census Bureau is delaying field operations until April 1 to help stop the spread of the coronavirus .
The U.S. Census Bureau is suspending field operations for two weeks to help stop the spread of COVID-19 .
“ We are analyzing on a daily , if not hourly basis , what is happening in our nation , ” said Tim Olson , who oversees bureau 's field operations .
Census officials expect field operations to resume April 1 .
The suspension also impacts its hiring and onboarding process , though officials emphasize their recruitment website will remain open as they may need more employees than originally planned for .
CLICK
HERE FOR FOX NEWS ' COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
According to a statement released by the Census Bureau , “ in late May , census takers around the nation will begin visiting households that have not yet responded to the 2020 Census to help complete the count . ”
It ’s a month later than Census takers were supposed to start knocking on doors of households that had not yet responded .
“ Respond on your own , so a Census worker does not need to come to your household , ” Olson said .
Census officials expect field operations to resume April 1 .
Fortunately , Census officials say they ’ve already exceeded their expected response rate .
So far , about 18.6 million households have sent their forms in .
“ I think people are realizing this is a big deal , ” Olson said .
The Census officially kicked off March 12 and by March 20 , every U.S. household is supposed to have received their mail - in Census forms .
That envelope will include instructions on how to complete the Census form online , on paper or over the phone .
“ It certainly will impact our operations and everyone ’s operations , ” said Stephanie Reid , Philly Count ’s executive director .
Most major cities have committees such as Philly Counts to engage with the local community .
Its Philadelphia office of nearly 20 people is also impacted .
“ We are all working from home .
And we do virtual meetings , a Zoom meeting every day , ” Reid said .
Stephanie Reid , Philly Count 's Executive Director , works from home amid coronavirus concerns .
Reid says a major focus now is college students .
“ College students should still be counted where they go to school , and I know this is going to be confusing for people because students have gone home now , ” Reid explained .
The upcoming outreach events Philly Counts had planned are now stripped from the calendar , so the committee is brainstorming virtual ways to reach people .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
“ I think that we are looking at how do we continue and keep the momentum going and have online events , ” Reid added .
Census officials are still hoping to submit all the collected data to the president by December 2020 .
All operational updates are expected to be released on its website .

Who was Li Wenliang, the Chinese doctor who warned about the coronavirus? .
2020-03-20 09:46:41 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Dr. Li Wenliang was a 34 - year - old ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital in China 's Hubei Province who was reprimanded by the Chinese government and later died of coronavirus after he warned others about the disease in late December .
The Chinese government exonerated Li and offered a “ solemn apology ” to his family in mid - March , more than a month after he died from the virus in early February .
China exonerates doctor reprimanded for warning of virus
A week after his death , Li 's mother Lu Shuyun demanded an explanation from the police about his treatment , saying in an online video that her son was " summoned by the Wuhan Police Bureau " and forced to sign an " admonishment notice " for allegedly spreading inaccurate information about the outbreak .
" We wo n’t give up if they do n’t give us an explanation , " she said at the time .
He was reportedly then summoned to the Public Security Bureau where he was forced to sign a letter stating that he made false comments about the virus .
In this Feb 3 , 2020 , photo released by Beijing Thanksgiving Public Welfare Foundation , Dr. Li Wenliang is seen at The Central Hospital of Wuhan in Wuhan in central China 's Hubei province .
( Beijing Thanksgiving Public Welfare Foundation via AP )
Li was among eight doctors reprimanded by Chinese police late last year for warning people on social media about the threat of the virus .
Along with the apology in March , Chinese officials said two police officers had been issued “ disciplinary punishments " for the original handling of the matter .
Coronavirus soon spread through Wuhan , leading to overwhelmed hospitals and widespread shutdowns in the area in January until it spread throughout the country and eventually across the globe , leading to nearly 250,000 cases and more than 10,000 deaths by March 20 .
Li ’s death at the hospital in Wuhan – where he treated patients and likely contracted the virus – renewed longstanding anger about the communist party ’s alleged lies and suppression of information in the country .
CLICK
HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE Leaders in Wuhan have been accused of telling doctors last year to not publicize the threat of the virus and told to delete social media posts asking for donations of medical supplies .

Ray Dalio says US corporations may lose $4T in crisis, Trump stimulus needs to be doubled .
2020-03-20 04:42:41 +00:00 .
Fox Business host Stuart Varney believes a recession is on the way .
Ray Dalio , the billionaire founder of hedge fund behemoth Bridgewater Associates , sounded the alarm Thursday over the coronavirus crisis and said U.S. corporations will lose up to $ 4 trillion and President Trump needs to dramatically increase his stimulus plan .
NEWSOM ISSUES STAY AT HOME ORDER
Dalio ’s comments come a day after Bill Ackman , another billionaire investor , called on the president to shut down the country for 30 days or “ America will end as we know it . ”
CORONAVIRUS LATEST
Few people understand the global economy like Dalio .
He told CNBC that the coronavirus crisis is something not seen “ in our lifetime . ”
He said there will be some who suffer “ very big losses ” and in order to soften the blow , the federal government needs to spend more money .
“ A lot more money . ”
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell unveiled a sweeping economic rescue plan Thursday to pump $ 1,200 direct checks to taxpayers , $ 300 billion for small businesses to keep idled workers on payroll and $ 208 billion in loans to airlines and other industries .
The GOP leader ’s effort builds on Trump ’s request for Congress to “ go big ” as lawmakers race to craft a $ 1 trillion economic aid and stimulus package amid the pandemic crisis and nationwide shutdown that ’s hurtling the country toward a likely recession .
Ray Dalio , founder of Bridgewater Associates LP , speaks during a panel discussion at the Bloomberg New Economy Forum in Beijing , China , on Thursday , Nov. 21 , 2019 .
PHOTO :
Takaaki Iwabu / Bloomberg via Getty Images Dalio said the stimulus package should be , minimum , $ 1.5 trillion to $ 2 trillion .
The Federal Reserve put in motion two emergency lending programs Tuesday that were last deployed in response to the 2008 financial crisis , aiming to ease the flow of credit to businesses and households struggling amid the viral outbreak .
The first is intended to unclog a short - term lending market for what is known as “ commercial paper . ”
The second is also intended to mostly assist the commercial paper market and allows a wider range of financial institutions to access short - term loans from the Fed — in this case investment banks and securities trading divisions of large banks .
It also allows them to pledge a wider range of collateral in return for the loans .
The funds will then mostly be used to purchase commercial paper .
GET THE FOX NEWS APP
“ We ’re living in a different world , like the 1930s in which 1930s , 1932 , you have a devaluation of the dollar .
You have the printing of money , ” Dalio said .
The Associated Press contributed to this report

Kansas governor’s decision to close all schools sees GOP pushback .
2020-03-19 20:01:42 +00:00 .
The number of people testing positive for coronavirus has spiked after testing has become more readily available in the U.S. President Trump and Gov. Cuomo are just two officials considering how to address this issue .
Kansas GOP lawmakers on Wednesday moved to limit their Democratic governor ’s emergency powers during the coronavirus pandemic , arguing that they are an overreaction that is fueling panic and an unnecessary intrusion into people ’s lives .
The pushback came after Gov. Laura Kelly announced Tuesday that all public schools will be closed for the remainder of the school year and classes will be held remotely to curb the spread of the coronavirus .
Kansas Gov. Laura Kelly answers questions from reporters after announcing that she 'd order all public and private K-12 schools in the state to close for the rest of the semester , Tuesday , March 17 , 2020 , at the Statehouse in Topeka , Kan. ( AP )
Conservative critics have suggested that Kelly 's actions suggest she might go after firearms and try to limit their sale .
Kelly declared a state of emergency last week to mobilize state resources , but it will expire March 27 unless legislators pass a resolution extending it .
Lawmakers are now set to have the GOP - controlled legislature 's leaders scrutinize all of Kelly 's future coronavirus orders and to give them the power to revoke many of them within days .
" There is a concern about civil liberties , a concern about the proper exercise of government authority and not wanting it to be too extreme , ” House Speaker Pro Tem .
Blaine Finch , who helped draft the final version , told fellow Republicans .
The House approved a version of the resolution last week as a straightforward extension of Kelly 's state of emergency into January 2021 .
CURFEWS , CLOSURES AND MORE : WHAT THE GOVERNMENT CAN AND CAN'T DO IN A HEALTH EMERGENCY
The Senate on Wednesday passed its version limiting Kelly 's power , 37 - 2 .
The two chambers then negotiated a compromise Wednesday night , with final votes in both chambers expected later Thursday .
The state of emergency would last until May 1 , but legislative leaders could approve further extensions every 30 days .
The Senate - approved language from conservatives to strip Kelly of power governors have had in other emergencies .
Among those powers is the authority to say who goes into or out of a disaster area and to restrict movement within an area .
She also would lose the governor 's broad power to act to " promote and secure the safety and protection of the civilian population . "
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Conservatives argued that Kelly 's bold moves , and similar actions in other states , are unnecessarily torpedoing the economy and isolating people .
Democrats warned that the Senate 's language could limit Kelly 's ability to set up quarantine zones around communities in crisis .
Kansas has had more than 20 confirmed coronavirus cases and one COVID-19 - related death .
The Associated Press contributed to this report .

6 relatives hospitalized with coronavirus after woman dies from illness .
2020-03-18 18:20:18 +00:00 .
Bryan Llenas reports where drive - thru testing is available in New York and where HHS plans to deploy mobile drive - thru testing nationally Five relatives are hospitalized in New Jersey while a sixth is in a separate facility in Pennsylvania after a 55 - year - old woman died last Friday and later tested positive for the novel coronavirus .
“ This has been devastating for all of us , ” Elizabeth Fusco , Rita Fusco - Jackson ’s sister , told NJ.com .
“ Our hearts are broken over losing our sister , Rita .
We just need help in saving our family members with life - saving medication . ”
CORONAVIRUS CASES TOP 200,000 WORLDWIDE , DEATH TOLL PASSES 8,000
Fusco told the news outlet that her four siblings and mother are hospitalized at CentraState , while the victim ’s brother is in critical condition in Pennsylvania .
“ We are waiting on 19 tests of spouses and children of the hospitalized victims , who were all in contact on March 10 or later , ” she told NJ.com .
Fusco - Jackson ’s death marked the second COVID-19 - related fatality in New Jersey .
She was suspected of having the virus before her death , but her test results did n’t come back until a day after , NJ.com previously reported .
CLICK
HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
A Facebook post from St. Robert Bellarmine , where she attended church , said that Fusco - Jackson was involved in the parish choir and religious education program .
New Jersey has reported 267 cases of COVID-19 and three deaths .

Southeastern University President Ingle: Why I decided to send our students home, switch to remote learning .
2020-03-16 09:09:45 +00:00 .
Fox Business Networks ' Lauren Simonetti reports on how institutions are handling COVID-19 .
As the president of a private university , with the continual spread of the coronavirus , I anticipated how we would move forward to protect our campus body .
Following President Donald Trump ’s address earlier this week , I knew we would need to make the difficult decision of transitioning to remote - learning for a period of time .
At the end of this week , President Trump declared a national emergency in light of this pandemic .
Now is the time for universities to consider all necessary precautions to secure the safety and health of their students .
As the coronavirus continues to spread in Florida , we decided to take all necessary measures to be responsive and , first and foremost , ensure the safety of our community .
PETER NAVARRO :
FACED WITH CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC , CONGRESS SHOULD PASS TRUMP ’S $ 800 BILLION PAYROLL TAX CUT
This past Friday , Southeastern University announced to our students that all face - to - face classes will transition to a remote - learning format .
We have chosen to close school on Monday , March 16 , for students and faculty to prepare for this transition , which will take place from March 17 to April 13 until further notice .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE OPINION NEWSLETTER
Many institutions of higher education , both private and state , are taking a similar approach .
As they embark on this new strategy of education , many students may be concerned of the impact this will have on the remainder of their semester , including major events ( such as graduation ) and their individual academic success .
But , like many universities following a similar plan of action , for our campus this temporary shift to remote instruction will not change the academic calendar .
At Southeastern , our final exams , start and end dates for the semester , and our commitment to academic excellence will remain the same .
Moving to a remote and virtual learning space , we are seeking to remain flexible and supportive of all of our students throughout this season .
Similar to how other campuses are operating , faculty will continue to communicate directly with students as their classes progress forward , and remain on schedule .
Of course , these transitions to remote instruction require patience and cooperation .
Both parents and students may be alarmed by these developments , but these steps of action are being taken as a precaution .
All of this is in an effort to contribute to the decrease of the spread of the coronavirus .
Our teams continue to work diligently to accommodate this transition for our campus , and we are providing additional information as it becomes available .
During this time , our administration , faculty and staff will continue to remain focused on their roles to see our students succeed .
While the coming weeks present a very different way of doing life together as a university , we believe this season will only strengthen us further .
It is easy to allow stressful situations to get the best of us , and these uncertain times surely present a unique way of approaching education .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
We trust , as I know many other state and private universities do as well , that we will make this transition to a new way of learning seamless and undisruptive , with every effort to ensure the academic success and health of our students .
At Southeastern University , we believe these difficult decisions have ultimately been made to best serve and support our students .
After all , our sole purpose is to see them thrive .
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM DR .
INGLE

Georgia postpones presidential primaries over coronavirus fears .
2020-03-15 00:43:29 +00:00 .
A large portion of poll workers in the last presidential election was above the age of 60 .
Many nursing homes are also used as polling stations .
Here is how Florida is handling concerns over the coronavirus ahead of its primary this coming Tuesday .
Election officials in Georgia have postponed the March 24 presidential primaries over fears of the growing coronavirus pandemic .
Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger announced the delay on Saturday after Gov. Brian Kemp declared a state of emergency .
" Events are moving rapidly and my highest priority is protecting the health of our poll workers , their families , and the community at large , " Raffensperger said in a statement .
State officials will halt early voting , which began on March 2 , and push the March 24 primary vote off until May 19 , when other state primary elections are scheduled to be held , The Associated Press reported .
LOUSIANA MOVES TO POSTPONE PRIMARY AMID CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Louisiana became the first state to push back its presidential primaries on Friday .
The state postponed the April 4 vote due to concerns over the coronavirus .
The primary -- which includes mayoral races and local propositions , as well as the presidential ballot --
will instead be held June 20 , Louisiana Secretary of State Kyle Ardoin announced at a news conference in Baton Rouge .
Fox News ' Paul Steinhauser and Lee Ross contribute to this report , as well as The Associated Press contributed to this report .

Cruz extends self-quarantine after learning of interaction with another coronavirus patient .
2020-03-13 15:05:35 +00:00 .
From the NBA to the MLB , here are a few major cancellations due to coronavirus .
Sen. Ted Cruz will remain in self - quarantine for several more days " out of an abundance of caution " after learning he came in contact with a second person who has tested positive for the new coronavirus , the Texas Republican announced Friday .
“ My self - quarantine ended yesterday afternoon .
I still have no symptoms and feel fine , and I was looking forward to taking my family out to dinner tonight , " Cruz said in a statement .
“ Unfortunately , last night I was informed I had a second interaction with an individual who yesterday tested positive for COVID-19 . "
CPAC ATTENDEE WITH CORONAVIRUS HAD CONTACT WITH ‘ SEVERAL ’ MEMBERS OF CONGRESS :
PHYSICIAN Cruz had been under self - quarantine , like several other Republican lawmakers , after attending the CPAC conference two weeks ago , where one person who attended was later revealed to have been infected .
Before Cruz 's quarantine , the senator also met on March 3 in his Washington D.C. office with Santiago Abascal , the leader of the Vox Party in Spain , who announced Thursday he tested positive for the virus .
" We met for about 20 minutes , sitting together at a conference table .
We shook hands twice and took pictures together , " Cruz said , noting that the Spanish politician was asymptomatic at the time .
Cruz said he 'll extend his self - quarantine until March 17 .
“ I ’m still not feeling any symptoms .
I ’m consulting with medical officials .
But , for the same reasons I initially self - quarantined — out of an abundance of caution and to give everyone peace of mind — I am extending the self - quarantine to March 17 , a full fourteen days from my meeting with Mr. Abascal , " Cruz said .
BRAZIL 'S PRESIDENT BOLSONARO TESTS POSITIVE FOR CORONAVIRUS
No lawmakers have tested positive for coronavirus .
But several politicians have been in self - isolation after coming into contact with someone who was infected .
Sen. Lindsey Graham , R - S.C. , and Sen. Rick Scott , R - Fla. , announced earlier this week they would self - isolate because they were at Mar - a - Lago over the weekend with Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and his press secretary
Fabio Wajngarten , who both tested positive for the virus after meeting with President Trump and others .
Trump has not self - quarantined .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Among those members who temporarily cut themselves off from interactions with their staffs , colleagues and the public are Rep. Doug Collins , R - Ga. , Rep Matt Gaetz , R - Fla. , Rep. Paul Gosar , R - Ariz. , Rep. Julia Brownley , D - Calif , and Rep. Don Beyer , D - Va.
The White House , the Pentagon and the U.S. Capitol have suspended tours as the number of coronavirus cases in the U.S. continues to increase .
Fox News ' Tyler Olson contributed to this report .

Tribeca Film Festival postponed in New York City amid coronavirus outbreak .
2020-03-12 21:33:23 +00:00 .
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking today in entertainment .
Tribeca Film Festival will no longer be taking place next month .
The 19th annual event for independent film was set for April 15 through April 26 , but has been postponed because of coronavirus .
No new dates have been announced .
“ We founded the Tribeca Film Festival as a way to heal our community after the devastation of the 9/11 attacks in 2001 .
We were determined to overcome our fear and anxiety by joining together .
It is in our DNA to march forward while caring about our community , ” Jane Rosenthal , co - founder and CEO of Tribeca Enterprises , said in a statement .
“ We have made the difficult decision to postpone the 19th Tribeca Film Festival ( April 15 - 26 ) based on the announcement by Gov. Andrew Cuomo that events of 500 people or more are banned due to the spread of the novel coronavirus .
We are committed to ensuring the health and safety of the public while also supporting our friends , filmmakers and storytellers who look to Tribeca as a platform to showcase their work to audiences .
We will be back to you shortly with our plans . ”
The festival had selections from 12 filmmakers representing 33 countries .
“ Jimmy Carter Rock
Roll President ” was set to open the festival on April 15 with a premiere screening at the Beacon Theatre and live performances from Willie Nelson and Nile Rodgers .
‘ FAST FURIOUS 9 ’ RELEASE PUSHED BACK A YEAR DUE TO CORONAVIRUS
The lineup also included the U.S. premiere of “ Bad Education ” starring Hugh Jackman ; the New York premiere of Judd Apatow ’s comedy “ The King of Staten Island ” with Pete Davidson ; Elisabeth Moss in “ Shirley ; ” and “ Call Your Mother ” featuring Bridget Everett , Tig Notaro and Awkwafina .
“ Fries , ” a documentary from Chrissy Teigen and Malcolm Gladwell , was to have its world premiere at the festival .
The competition included 10 U.S. narratives , 10 international narratives and 12 documentary competition features .
Additionally , the lineup had 16 spotlight narratives , 20 spotlight documentaries , 17 viewpoints , five midnight and 13 movie plus selections .
‘ A QUIET PLACE 2 ’ RELEASE DELAYED AMID CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK
The short film lineup included 64 films from 20 countries .
About 150,000 people were expected to attend this year .
“ First comes the story , then empathy , then comes change .
When you change the narrator , you empower different voices to show audiences new worlds through their eyes , ” Paula Weinstein , Chief Content Officer of Tribeca Enterprises and program advisor said in a statement when this year ’s line - up was announced .
“ We are privileged to have so many new and rich worlds brought to life by visionary storytellers .
We hope audiences leave the Festival deeply touched , moved , and entertained . ”
KIMMEL , CORDEN , SPADE LATE - NIGHT SHOWS WILL DROP LIVE CROWDS
For the first time , some festival programming was going to take place outside of Manhattan in Hoboken , New Jersey .
This story originally appeared in Variety .

Disneyland to close due to coronavirus .
2020-03-12 21:09:23 +00:00 .
Viking Cruises is now the second cruise line to suspended all sailings in response to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic .
Disneyland in Anaheim , Calif. , will close its doors Saturday in response to the coronavirus outbreak .
The company announced the temporary closure on its Twitter account , where it confirmed that the parks will close starting March 14 .
The closure will last until at least the end of March .
On the Disney Parks News Twitter page and its website , the company wrote : “ While there have been no reported cases of COVID-19 at Disneyland Resort , after carefully reviewing guidelines of the Governor of California ’s executive order and in the best interest of our guests and employees , we are proceeding with the closure of Disneyland Park and Disney California Adventure , beginning the morning of March 14 through the end of the month . ”
CUOMO BANS GATHERINGS OF MORE THAN 500 IN NEW YORK OVER CORONAVIRUS , EFFECTIVELY CLOSES BROADWAY
The statement continued to explain that the hotels at the Disneyland Resort will remain open until Monday , March 16 .
This is being done to give guests time to make necessary travel arrangements .
Downtown Disney will remain open for the time being .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The statement concluded : “ Disneyland Resort will work with guests who wish to change or cancel their visits , and will provide refunds to those who have hotel bookings during this closure period .
We anticipate heavy call volume over the next several days and appreciate guests ’ patience as we work hard to respond to all inquiries . ”
The park did not share whether Disney World would also be closing at a future date .
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
This news comes after the California Department of Public Health and the governor said that “ large gatherings that include 250 people or more should be postponed or canceled . ”
This policy will be in effect across the state of California until at least the end of March .

Princess Cruises suspending all cruises for 60 days in response to coronavirus spread .
2020-03-12 14:12:27 +00:00 .
3,000 passengers on the quarantined cruise ship are being slowly disembarked and will be monitored closely for coronavirus symptoms ; Claudia Cowan reports from the scene .
Princess Cruises is temporarily pausing all of its cruises for 60 days following the coronavirus outbreak on two of its ships – the Diamond Princess and Grand Princess , where 700 and 21 people onboard tested positive for the virus , respectively .
PASSENGERS HELD ON GRAND PRINCESS CRUISE SHIP OVER CORONAVIRUS CONCERNS TO RECEIVE FULL REFUND
Princess Cruise lines announced Thursday it is suspending all travel of its 18 cruise chips for two months out of “ an abundance of caution . ”
The pause will impact voyages departing March 12 to May 10 , the liner said in a press release .
Those currently onboard a cruise due to end in the next five days will continue as per the itinerary .
However , any passengers aboard ships with travel planned beyond March 17 will end early .
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
“ Princess Cruises is a global vacation company that serves more than 50,000 guests daily from 70 countries as part of our diverse business , and it is widely known that we have been managing the implications of COVID-19 on two continents , ” said Jan Swartz , president of Princess Cruises .
CLICK
HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
“ By taking this bold action of voluntarily pausing the operations of our ships , it is our intention to reassure our loyal guests , team members and global stakeholders of our commitment to the health , safety and well - being of all who sail with us , as well as those who do business with us , and the countries and communities we visit around the world , ” added Swartz , via press release .
CORONAVIRUS : WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
In a video posted by Princess Cruises , Swartz described the business move as “ perhaps the most difficult decision in our history , ” noting the “ incredible impact it has ” on its guests , employees and ports around the world .
The Grand Princess , which had maintained a holding pattern off the coast for days , was carrying multiple people who tested positive for COVID-19 , a disease caused by the new coronavirus .
( AP Photo / Noah Berger )
Those affected by the pause will be able to transfer the money spent on the canceled cruise to a future cruise through May 1 , 2022 .
Passengers will also receive “ an additional generous future cruise credit benefit ” to be applied to on - cruise expenses .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Guests will also be allowed to request a cash refund via the Princess.com website .
The cruise line company plans to be operating normally by May 11 .
Previously , the CDC had recommended passengers postpone travel when sick and self - isolate if feeling ill while onboard .
For those still on ships , it is advised to wash your hands with soap and water consistently , avoid touching eyes , nose and mouth and limit interactions with those believed to be sick .

DC health officials recommend canceling mass gatherings through March, possibly postponing Cherry Blossom Festival .
2020-03-11 21:35:37 +00:00 .
Here are a few coronavirus prevention tips on how to stop touching your face .
Health officials in Washington , D.C. , have recommended canceling or delaying , any " non - essential mass gatherings " such as conferences , conventions and political events until the end of March , in an effort to limit the outbreak of the novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) .
The famed Cherry Blossom Festival , which is celebrated in the nation 's capital every year , may also be on the chopping block .
It was scheduled to be held from March 20 to April 12 but could be scrapped in the interest of public health .
A statement from the District of Columbia 's Health Department did not mention the festival but highlighted “ any social , cultural , or entertainment events where large crowds are anticipated be reconsidered by the organizer ” through March 31 , according to The Associated Press .
CORONAVIRUS : WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
A mass gathering was defined as " events where 1,000 or more people " are organized in a specific location .
NEW YORK CITY CANCELS
HALF MARATHON IN LIGHT OF CORONAVIRUS THREAT
Colleges and universities in D.C. , including Georgetown , have also reportedly begun canceling in - person classes for students , to help tame the spread of the disease .
Several federal lawmakers , including Sen. Ted Cruz , R - Texas , and newly appointed White House chief of staff Mark Meadows , have self - quarantined after it was discovered that a Conservative Political Action Conference ( CPAC ) attendee had tested positive for the virus .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
As of Wednesday evening , there were 1,100 confirmed cases of the virus in the U.S. nationwide , with 30 deaths .
There have been five confirmed cases of the disease in D.C. , but no fatalities .

Harvard suspends in-person classes, moves online in wake of coronavirus .
2020-03-10 14:03:57 +00:00 .
Children are more at risk of dying from the flu than the coronavirus .
Dr. Marc Siegel weighs in .
Harvard University announced Tuesday that all classes will be suspended in person and moved online as a result of the coronavirus , following the lead of several other schools .
The Cambridge Ivy League school becomes the second major Massachusetts college to shift to remote teaching , after Amherst College on Monday told students not to return to campus when spring break ends , according to the Boston Globe .
In a statement posted to its website , Harvard explained that it hopes to transition all graduate and undergraduate classes online by March 23 , the first day of classes following spring break .
CLICK
HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
In this Dec. 13 , 2018 , file photo , a gate opens to the Harvard University campus in Cambridge , Mass. ( AP )
" Students are asked not to return to campus after spring recess and to meet academic requirements remotely until further notice , " the statement read .
" Students who need to remain on campus will also receive instruction remotely and must prepare for severely limited on - campus activities and interactions .
All graduate students will transition to remote work wherever possible .
Schools will communicate more specific guidance and information , and we encourage everyone to review previous guidance about both international and domestic travel . "
MAJOR UNIVERSITIES CLOSE CLASSROOMS AMID CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK
The school also told students that it would offer counseling and mental health services as well as the employee assistance program to help them manage anxiety and stress .
" To our students , I know it will be difficult to leave your friends and your classrooms .
We are doing this not just to protect you but also to protect other members of our community who may be more vulnerable to this disease than you are , " the statement read .
" To our faculty , I recognize that we are asking you midway through the semester to completely rethink how you teach .
We do this because we know that you want to avoid putting your students at risk .
CORONAVIRUS : WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
" To our staff , I understand that we are expecting you to go above and beyond in your efforts to support our important mission of teaching and scholarship .
We do this because we know we can rely on your creativity , flexibility and judgment through these challenging times . "
Harvard 's decision comes after several schools on the West Coast , including Stanford and the University of Washington , informed students they were shutting down in - person classes to move to a remote schedule .
On Monday , Amherst announced the school would move to a remote schedule .
Thursday and Friday classes were canceled and all students are expected to leave the campus by March 16 , according to instructions on the college website .
As of March 9 , the number of confirmed and presumptive positive cases in Massachusetts totaled 41 , according to the Massachusetts Department of Public Health .
Fordham University in New York also announced it was " suspending face - to - face instruction on its campuses , while Princeton in New Jersey said there would be a " mandatory , temporary move for all lectures , seminars and precepts to virtual instruction starting on Monday , March 23 . "

Hannity: This Trump decision likely saved 'thousands and thousands of Americans' from contracting coronavirus .
2020-03-03 04:33:46 +00:00 .
President Trump 's critics are using the natural fear of the coronavirus as a political weapon .
Sean Hannity spent much of his opening monologue Monday lambasting Democrats for " weaponizing " the coronavirus outbreak and creating chaos hours after officials confirmed the virus has killed a total of six people in the U.S.
" It needs to be very clear to every American ... that the Democrats , the media mob , they will stop at nothing .
They will do anything , and I mean anything , to stop Donald Trump , " Hannity said .
" They will do anything , and I mean anything , to stop Donald Trump . "
— Sean HannityThe primetime host added Democrats have resorted to the use of " natural fear of a virus as a political weapon , " an indication that their " rage , hate - Trump psychosis is far worse than I thought . "
CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
" The level of derangement is off the charts , " he added .
Hannity applauded President Trump 's early efforts to contain the virus , recounting Trump 's decision in late January to close America to foreign nationals who had been to China within the past 14 days .
" My sources who were actually in the room when the president made this decision ... said , ' Well , there are about 25 people in the room .
No one agreed with the president to implement the travel ban , said that there would be political consequences if he did , ' " Hannity said .
" But he did it anyway , and he did it in record time .
Everyone else said , ' Well , maybe it 's too early . '
He made the call , and my sources confirmed to me tonight ...
this one early bold decision of this president likely prevented thousands and thousands of Americans from contracting this virus . "
The host then expressed confidence in the task force assembled by the president and railed against the mainstream media who seemed uninterested in Barack Obama 's delayed response to the 2009 swine flu outbreak .
" So far , thankfully less than ten people in the country have died from this virus , " Hannity said .
" Now , we need to put that in perspective .
Let us compare this to the swine flu virus .
It hit the U.S.
In April of 2009 .
It was n't until six months later in October of 2009 , after more than 20,000 Americans were hospitalized , more than 1,000 of our fellow citizens died , [ that ] President Obama declared a national emergency . "
Hannity continued , " Now do you remember at that time anybody in the media stirring up these types of hysteria as they are doing now ?
Do you remember the end of days predictions ?
Did the stock market tank because of all the reckless lying and fearmongering ?
That did not happen in 2009 .
In fact , the market went up , as swine flu cases mounted . "
" Pretty interesting ... a tale of two presidents , " he went on .
Hannity said the double standard indicates a " corrupt and morally bankrupt media mob . "
" The one thing they care about and the only thing is placating the psychotic rage and hypocrisy and double standard because they hate Donald Trump . "
Addressing his audience just hours before Super Tuesday , Hannity called on his viewers to fight back in November .
CLICK
HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
" That 's why this election means something .
More than any other in my lifetime , " he concluded .
" 246 days [ from now ] ...
you can not reward this . "

Some human coronaviruses can live on surfaces for 9 days, study finds .
2020-02-24 18:32:12 +00:00 .
Chinese health officials sent out an optimistic message about progress against the coronavirus , the South Korean Prime Minister says the country has entered an emergency phase ; Fox News correspondent Jonathan Serrie reports .
The novel coronavirus that ’s sickened nearly 80,000 people globally and killed some 2,600 may be able to live on surfaces , namely metal , glass or plastic , for up to nine days — if it resembles some of its other human coronavirus - causing “ cousins , ” that is .
In an analysis of 22 studies on other human coronaviruses — such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ( SARS ) , Middle East Respiratory Syndrome ( MERS ) , and endemic human coronaviruses ( HCoV ) — researchers found the viruses can “ persist on inanimate surfaces like metal , glass or plastic for up to nine days . ”
More specifically , the viruses can remain infectious on such materials between “ two hours up to nine days , ” according to the paper published in The Journal of Hospital Infection .
ARE PACKAGES FROM CORONAVIRUS - HIT CHINA SAFE TO HANDLE ?
The researchers also found that temperatures of 30 or 40 degrees Celsius ( about 86 degrees Fahrenheit and 104 degrees Fahrenheit , respectively )
“ reduced the duration of persistence ” of some of the viruses .
What ’s more , they also found that many of the coronaviruses studied could be “ efficiently inactivated ” by common household cleaners .
Disinfectants “ with 62 - 71 percent ethanol , 0.5 percent hydrogen peroxide or 0.1 percent sodium hypochlorite ” — bleach — was able to inactive the viruses within a minute , according to the study .
“ We expect a similar effect against the SARS - CoV-2 , ” or the novel coronavirus , researchers said .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) on its website warns human coronaviruses most commonly spread through the air when an infected person coughs or sneezes , close contact with an infected person ( shaking hands , for example ) , but also by touching an object or surface that has been exposed to the virus , then touching your mouth , nose , or eyes with dirty hands .
COULD CORONAVIRUS BECOME A PANDEMIC ?
WHAT TO KNOW ABOUT THE CLASSIFICATION Transmission via inanimate objects sparked concerns that imported goods from China could pose a health risk .
But an infectious disease expert previously told Fox News it ’s unlikely the virus will survive the journey from China to your front door .
“ The virus on materials they ordered would not survive such a trip .
Outside the body , we believe this virus only survives on [ an ] object minutes to an hour or so , not the days it takes your goods to travel the globe , ” Patricia A. Stinchfield , vice president of the National Foundation for Infectious Diseases ( NFID ) , told Fox News at the time .
“
As always after handling things , wash your hands before touching your eyes , nose or mouth . ”

Fast-food companies in China implement 'contactless' delivery, pickup in wake of outbreak .
2020-02-17 09:53:00 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Fast - food companies operating in China have taken extraordinary steps to contain the spread of the coronavirus by ramping up “ contactless ” pickup and delivery services to keep both their workers and customers safe , Reuters reported Sunday .
The companies taking the extra precautions include McDonald ’s , Starbucks and Kentucky Fried Chicken , the report said .
McDonald ’s has instituted contactless pickup and delivery of Big Macs , fries and other menu items across the country as the outbreak has grown .
AMERICANS QUARANTINED ON DIAMOND PRINCESS CRUISE SHIP OVER CORONAVIRUS FLOWN TO US ; 14 INFECTED AND ISOLATED ON PLANE
As part of the plan , customers order remotely – by mobile phones or using computers in the restaurants – and employees seal the meals in bags and put them in a pre - arranged location for pickup without human contact , McDonald ’s says on its website .
Delivery order procedures have also undergone revisions as drivers now drop McDonald ’s packages at building entrances , disinfect their delivery bags and wash their hands more frequently , the wire service reported .
Drivers also now carry ID cards showing they - and the people who made and packaged their food - had their body temperature scanned to prove they do not have a fever .
An entrance to a closed McDonald 's Corp. restaurant is barricaded near the famous West Lake , usually a popular tourist attraction , in Hangzhou , China , on Tuesday , Feb. 11 , 2020 .
The death toll from the coronavirus climbed above 1,000 , as the Chinese province at the epicenter of the outbreak reported its highest number of fatalities yet .
Photographer :
Qilai Shen / Bloomberg via Getty Images
The flu - like virus has infected more than 70,548 people globally and killed 1,770 as of Sunday , mostly in the central Chinese province of Hubei .
In early February , 83 percent of all stores on the Meituan - Dianping delivery platform - one of the largest in the country - were closed , according to Beijing - based data firm BigOne Lab .
DR .
MARC SIEGEL PRAISES
US RESPONSE TO CORONAVIRUS AMID GLOBAL PANIC : '
WE'RE BEING PROTECTED '
Starbucks has implemented procedures where customers order coffee via its app and then wait outside its cafés until receiving a pick - up notice , Reuters reported .
Orders are placed on tables just inside café entrances .
If customers enter Starbucks locations , they must submit to having their temperature taken at the door , as fever is one of the main symptoms of infection , and baristas wear masks .
For delivery , Starbucks said it regularly sterilizes containers and its delivery people have their temperature taken daily , the report said .
Indoors staff must wash hands every 30 minutes , and public areas are sterilized every two hours .
CHINA SEES CORONAVIRUS DEATH TOLL RISE BY 105
Meanwhile , Yum China Holdings Inc rolled out contactless delivery on Jan. 30 , with contactless pickup coming two days later at its KFC and Pizza Hut locations , the company said .
Chinese companies used contactless delivery prior to coronavirus , as couriers would drop packages at a consumer ’s door or lobby or place parcels in lockers for later pickup .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
But since the outbreak , many residential compounds are limiting access for drivers and asking customers to pick up their own packages .
In transactions that previously would have involved one person handing a package to the other , the driver now puts the food down – on the back of a moped , for instance – and then steps back and waits for the customer to take it and leave .

Australian man acquitted after 2 allegedly enter wrong home with machetes for 'sexual fantasy,' scare stranger .
2020-05-29 00:15:10 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Two men snuck into a bedroom with machetes after being hired to carry out a stranger 's sexual fantasy of being tied up in his underwear and stroked with a broom , only to discover they had got the wrong address .
The pair from Sydney , Australia , made their apologies and left the startled victim 's bedside as soon as they realized their mistake .
One of the men , Terrence Leroy , has now been acquitted of entering the home in July 2019 intending to intimidate while armed with an offensive weapon , after the New South Wales district court accepted his explanation .
Conceding " the facts of the case are unusual , " judge Sean Grant set out his reasons for the not guilty verdict , saying the evidence did not suggest the men 's actions were intentional .
" They carried the machetes either as a prop or something to use in that fantasy , " he said .
" The fantasy was unscripted and there was discretion as to how it would be carried out . "
According to court documents , a man living in western NSW , near Griffith , " wanted a broom handle to be rubbed around his underwear . "
" He was willing to pay $ 5,000 if it was ' really good , ' " court documents said .
Police said the intended client had " history and proclivity for engaging the services of people . "
He had made arrangements with a man on Facebook for people to engage in the role play , and sent his address - before he later updated it after moving house more than 30 miles away .
METH FOUND HIDDEN IN CORONAVIRUS MASK , SANITIZER PACKAGES
But the resident of the home where the men mistakenly turned up to told police that when he noticed a light on in his lounge at around 6:15 a.m. , he assumed it was a friend who visits daily to make coffee .
He said he called out : " B----- off , it 's too early . "
After hearing a voice asking " is your name Kevin ? "
the man said he turned his light on to see two men he did not recognize standing next to his bed , both holding machetes .
A conversation then ensued , in which the pair repeatedly sought to establish whether he was " Kevin , " each time being told " no " in response .
At one point , one of them asked : " Are you sure you are not Kevin as we were told to come to [ this address ] and pick up Kevin . "
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Eventually accepting their error , the duo then left , with one saying " sorry mate " and shaking the resident 's hand , while the other said " bye . "
The resident then called police .
Click here for more from Sky News .

Army vet's gold cross vanishes before his death at NYC hospital, as family asks for its return .
2020-05-27 23:07:48 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Steve and Teresa Esposito , a Brooklyn couple married for 70 years , both died this month -- he contracted COVID-19 and she had Alzheimer ’s disease .
But their family says Steve Esposito had a gold cross that went missing before he succumbed to the virus , and they 're asking for its return , according to a local report .
Steve Esposito , an Army veteran , bought matching crosses for him and his wife that they rarely took off , their granddaughter Jessica Petrosino told Fox 5 NY .
“ This is something that was going to be passed down to grandchildren and great - grandchildren , ” she said .
Days after Teresa Esposito 's death , Steve Esposito checked in to NYU Langone Hospital in Brooklyn , the outlet reported , and he then briefly transferred to the Bensonhurst Center for Rehabilitation and Healthcare .
He returned to NYU , where he later died , and his cross was missing , according to Petrosino .
ARMY GENERAL TASKED TO HELP LEAD RACE FOR CORONAVIRUS VACCINE HAS HISTORY OF SUCCESS WITH LOGISTICS
She filed a police report , but she hinted that the family is more concerned with recovering the heirloom than seeing anyone punished .
“ We do n’t have any questions , ” she told Fox 5 .
“ We do n’t want to know anything .
[ We want it ] back in our family , where it belongs .
This is something we did n’t want to die with my grandfather , and at this moment , it died with him . ”
NYU told Fox 5 in a statement that it is investigating the matter .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
“ We have already been in contact with family , have expressed our condolences on the loss of their loved one , and will continue to keep them updated on the progress of the inquiry , ” the hospital said .
The Bensonhurst Center , which has barred visitors to the facility since March 11 over concerns about the spread of the coronavirus , did not immediately respond to Fox News ' request for comment .

Japanese man arrested in Kyoto anime arson after 10 months hospitalized with injuries .
2020-05-27 15:43:18 +00:00 .
Dozens of others were injured after a man burst into Kyoto Animation and set it on fire ; Kitty Logan reports .
A man who Japanese police say set fire to a Kyoto anime studio last year , killing dozens of people , was finally arrested Wednesday after spending 10 months recovering from his own severe burns .
Kyoto police said they had obtained a warrant for 42 - year - old Shinji Aoba ’s arrest at the time of the fire , but had to wait for him to recover so he could be questioned in the investigation .
FLASHBACK : DOZENS KILLED IN FIRE AT JAPANESE ANIME STUDIO AFTER MAN SCREAMING ' YOU DIE ! '
SET BUILDING ALIGHT
Aoba is accused of setting fire to Kyoto Animation 's No . 1 studio on July 18 last year , killing 36 people and injuring more than 30 others .
Shinji Aoba appeared on a stretcher as he was carried to Fushimi police station after being arrested in Kyoto , western Japan , Wednesday .
( Suo Takekuma / Kyodo News via AP )
Witnesses have said Aoba burst into the building while carrying two containers of flammable liquid and shouting , “ You die ! ” before dumping the fluids and setting it ablaze with a lighter .
It has been reported in Japanese media that Aoba bore a grudge against the studio , which he believed had " stolen novels " from him .
About 70 people were working inside the studio in southern Kyoto , Japan ’s ancient capital , at the time of the attack .
Many were young animators .
In this July 18 , 2019 , file photo , firefighters respond to a building fire of Kyoto Animation 's No . 1 studio , in Kyoto , western Japan .
The fire killed 36 people .
( Kyodo News via AP , File )
One of the survivors , an animator , told Japanese media he jumped from a window of the three - story building gasping for air amid scorching heat after seeing “ a black mushroom cloud ” rising from downstairs .
Many others tried but failed to escape to the roof , fire officials said .
Many died of carbon monoxide poisoning .
FLASHBACK : MAN ACCUSED OF STARTING FIRE AT KYOTO ANIME STUDIO HELD GRUDGE AGAINST COMPANY , CLAIMED IT ' STOLE NOVELS '
On Wednesday , Aoba appeared strapped to a stretcher as he was carried into a police station .
His face and arms were badly scarred , and he wore a medical mask over his nose and mouth .
He had sustained severe burns on his face , torso , and limbs and was unconscious for weeks .
He reportedly still can not walk or feed himself without assistance .
In this July 19 , 2019 , file photo , a woman prays at a makeshift memorial to honor the 36 victims of a fire at the building of Kyoto Animation 's No . 1 studio .
( AP Photo / Jae C. Hong , File )
Formal criminal charges are expected to be filed against him within the next few weeks .
Kyoto Animation , better known as KyoAni , was founded in 1981 and has produced many mega - hit anime series .
Their hits include “ Lucky Star ” of 2008 , “ K - On ! ” in 2011 , “ Haruhi Suzumiya ” in 2009 .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Its new feature film , “ Violet Evergarden , ” about a woman who professionally writes letters for clients , was scheduled to open in April but was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic .
The Associated Press contributed to this report .

Biden attends Memorial Day ceremony, first time leaving home in two months .
2020-05-25 17:05:49 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Leaving his home in Wilmington , Del. , for his first public trip anywhere since the coronavirus pandemic shuttered much of the country two months ago , former Vice President Joe Biden and his wife Jill made an unannounced visit on Monday to attend a Memorial Day wreath - laying ceremony .
The presumptive Democratic presidential nominee wore a black mask covering his mouth and nose during the ceremony at Veterans Memorial Park at the Delaware Memorial Bridge in New Castle , which is a short drive from Biden 's home .
THE LATEST FROM FOX NEWS ON THE 2020 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN Democratic presidential candidate , former Vice President Joe Biden and Jill Biden depart after placing a wreath at the Delaware Memorial Bridge Veterans Memorial Park , Monday , May 25 , 2020 , in New Castle , Del. ( AP Photo / Patrick Semansky )
The Bidens placed a wreath of white flowers at the memorial , briefly spoke with the retired adjutant general of the Delaware National Guard , and saluted a small group of veterans before returning to their nearby motorcade , according to a press pool report .
“ Never forget the sacrifices that these men and women made .
Never , ever forget , ” Biden told reporters during the somber ceremony to honor members of the military killed while serving in the U.S. armed services .
The brief stop to mark the holiday was the first time the former vice president ’s left his Wilmington property since mid - March , when the pandemic forced most Americans to huddle in their homes in order to prevent the spread of the virus .
The last public event Biden held outside his home was a March 12 briefing on the coronavirus with reporters at a hotel in Wilmington .
" It feels good to be out of my house , " Biden told reporters .
Democratic presidential candidate , former Vice President Joe Biden and Jill Biden , arrive to lay a wreath at the Delaware Memorial Bridge Veterans Memorial Park , Monday , May 25 , 2020 , in New Castle , Del. ( AP Photo / Patrick Semansky )
BIDEN SAYS HE 'S NOT ' HIDIN ' AS HE DEFENDS VIRTUAL CAMPAIGN STRATEGY
Pushing back against criticism from President Trump and his allies that he ’s hiding in the basement of his home in Delaware during the coronavirus crisis , Biden emphasized two weeks ago that he ’s “ following the guidelines ” by campaigning online and argued that he ’s “ winning ” right now in his general election faceoff with the GOP incumbent in the White House .
“ We ’re on the campaign trail now .
Everybody says ‘ Biden ’s hidin . ’
Let me tell you something , we ’re doing very well .
We ’re following the guidelines of the medical profession .
We ’re following the guidelines of the experts , the Dr. Faucis of the world , ” Biden said in an interview on ABC ’s " Good Morning America . "
With most Americans following social distancing guidelines to prevent the spread of the coronavirus , all large - scale events and gatherings have been scrapped , which has made holding traditional campaign events like rallies and town halls impossible .
Political campaigns have improvised , holding their interactions with voters and supporters and their fundraisers virtually .
After mostly staying at the White House for a month and a half , the president has made three coronavirus - related official White House trips to three crucial general election battleground states the past three weeks .

Virginia Gov. Northam criticized after not wearing mask or social distancing on beach .
2020-05-24 06:22:50 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam faced criticism on social media after appearing in Virginia Beach Saturday without a face mask and not practicing social distancing measures around members of the public .
Northam reportedly visited the beach with Mayor Bobby Dye on the second day of the beach ’s reopening , according to local news outlet 13News Now .
Virginia Beach 's reopening is considered a test to see if people can safely follow social distancing rules before other beaches in Virginia reopen .
But Northam , who previously served as an Army doctor , came under fire when images of him surfaced on social media not wearing a face mask and apparently in close contact with other community members .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) reminded the public this week that the coronavirus mainly spreads person - to - person when in close proximity , while it also revealed that surface contamination is far less likely than previously thought .
According to the state - mandated rules , people are allowed to be outside without a mask when sunbathing , swimming and fishing as long as they remain distant from other parties .
NORTHAM DITCHES CORONAVIRUS RESTRICTIONS FOR VIRGINIA BEACH AFTER WEEKEND SEES CROWDS DEFY HIS ORDERS
The governor ’s office told NBC in a statement : “ The governor has repeatedly encouraged wearing face coverings inside or when social distancing is impossible .
He was outside today and not expecting to be within 6 feet of anyone . ”
The governor is expected to announce new mask protocols on Tuesday , according to an NBC source in the governor ’s office .
All inside businesses will have new face - covering requirements as the state slowly returns to business as usual .
VIRGINIA GOVERNOR
TO DELAY REOPENING NORTHERN PARTS OF STATE , NEAR DC , FOR TWO WEEKS
The state initiated Phase One of its reopening plan on May 15 , but northern Virginia was allowed to wait until midnight May 28 to start reopening , to give local businesses more time to meet the new health and safety standards .
Phase One of the plan still bans social gatherings of 10 people or more , and the recommended social distancing guideline of six feet or more is still in place .
CLICK
HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Northam could not be immediately reached by Fox News for comment on his violation of the state ’s social distancing regulations at the beach .

Cyclone Amphan rips through India and Bangladesh, killing dozens, leaving millions without power .
2020-05-21 14:46:00 +00:00 .
Fox News senior meteorologist Janice Dean has your FoxCast .
In Jodhpur Park , a neighborhood in South Kolkata , India , a family of seven raced Wednesday night to bolt the windows , pad the doors and wait .
Then the lights went out and the wind began to whip , sending out a sinister whistle .
Over the next several hours , Cyclone Amphan would tear through India and Bangladesh , killing more than 80 people and injuring hundreds of others .
The superstorm was the strongest ever recorded in India 's Bay of Bengal with gusts more than 110 miles per hour .
When it made landfall , it snapped power lines , uprooted trees and damaged homes .
People walk past a tree branch fallen in the middle of a road after Cyclone Amphan hit the region in Kolkata , India , Thursday , May 21 , 2020 .
( AP ) CYCLONE AMPHAM , STRONGEST STORM IN OVER A DECADE , SLAMS COAST OF INDIA , BANGLADESH AS MILLIONS FLEE
Then came the flooding .
The storm surge and heavy rains inundated some areas and flooded many of Kolkata 's roads .
On Thursday , 14 million people were still without power .
Roadside vendors along a metro station salvage material from his stall after Cyclone Amphan hit the region in Kolkata , India , Thursday , May 21 , 2020 .
A powerful cyclone ripped through densely populated coastal India and Bangladesh .
( AP )
Kolkata 's airport was shut down and flooded , with local media reporting some hangars had collapsed .
At least 72 people were killed in West Bengal with two more deaths reported in neighboring Odisha , according to the state government , though that number is likely to rise .
In Bangladesh , at least 12 people were killed and 1 million people were without power in the southern part of the country .
In this Wednesday , May 20 , 2020 photo , a boat brings people to land , as locals check an embankment before Cyclone Amphan made landfall , in Shyamnagar , Shatkhira , Bangladesh .
( AP )
Cyclone Amphan , the first " super cyclone " to form in the Bay of Bengal since 1999 , also badly damaged many centuries - old buildings when it tore through the city .
It had weakened from a super cyclone — with Category 5 strength — earlier this week to an " extremely severe cyclonic storm . "
Amphan made landfall between Digha , a seaside resort in West Bengal , and the Hatiya Islands in Bangladesh .
CLIMATE CHANGE IS INFLUENCING WHERE TROPICAL CYCLONES HAPPEN MOST FREQUENTLY , STUDY SAYS
A man covers himself with a plastic sheet and walks in the rain ahead of Cyclone Amphan landfall , at Bhadrak district , in the eastern Indian state of Orissa , Wednesday , May 20 , 2020 .
( AP )
It started off hitting the Sundarbans , a mangrove area near the India - Bangladesh border before heading north toward Kolkata .
Parts of West Bengal and Orissa states bore the brunt of the storm .
Dramatic images shared on social media showed electricity transformers exploding and tiles on roofs being peeled away as well as broken river jetties and vehicles crushed under fallen trees .
CLICK
HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the devastation in Kolkata , the state capital , was " a bigger disaster than COVID-19 . "
" Area after area has been ruined , " she told the Press Trust of India news agency .
"
I have experienced a war - like situation today . "

Canadian woman says she's tested positive for coronavirus 8 times: 'COVID-19 has taken a lot out of me' .
2020-05-20 22:12:23 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
A Canadian woman who contracted the coronavirus in March has tested positive for the illness for an eighth time .
Tracy Schofield from Cambridge , Ontario , came down with COVID-19 symptoms including fever , chills and shortness of breath March 30 and tested positive for the first time March 31 , according to CTV News .
Since then , she has taken eight more tests , including one that inexplicably came back negative .
She is currently preparing for her 10th test .
For two weeks following her first test , Schofield self - quarantined in her room at home where her 17 - year - old son also lives .
During that period , she claims her fever reached 104.1 degrees Fahrenheit , and she also lost her sense of taste and smell .
Now , more than 50 days later , she told CTV she still suffers shortness of breath .
“ COVID-19 has taken a lot out of me , and it continues every day , ” she said .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
After producing a positive result seven times , her eighth test came back negative .
“ I cried because I was so happy , ” Schofield said .
But according to World Health Organization guidelines , a patient must test negative twice consecutively before they can be declared “ recovered . ”
Unfortunately , a ninth test found that the virus was still strong in her system .
Health officials have warned that these tests have been known to produce false negatives and positives .
Early anecdotal reports suggested that some test kits correctly detected COVID-19 only 70 percent of the time , meaning about a third of patients would receive a false negative .
Click for more from the New York Post .

Girl, 5, stabilizing after battling coronavirus, Kawasaki-like disease: family .
2020-05-18 19:03:20 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
A 5 - year - old girl from the U.K. may be on the road to recovery after a " Kawasaki inflammatory condition " sent her into critical care , her family says .
Scarlett Roberts reportedly caught COVID-19 at her school before it closed , but had " appeared to recover " from a " mild " bout of the illness about five weeks ago , " her great aunt , June , and her father , Piers Roberts , wrote in a series of Twitter posts .
The child then underwent a visit to the intensive care unit with a " Kawasaki inflammatory response . "
Recent reports have surfaced of children afflicted by the rare Kawasaki disease - like illness , which is believed to be associated with the coronavirus .
CLICK
HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
Piers Roberts said Scarlett had a 20 percent chance of survival until she was discharged by the hospital .
Scarlett was taken off the ventilator and developed heart problems , the family wrote .
However , Scarlett ’s mother , Naomi Roberts , gave an update to her child ’s condition in a Facebook post on Monday morning .
WASHINGTON COMMUNITY DEVELOPS RURAL CORONAVIRUS TESTING MODEL
“ Amazing news , ” she wrote .
“ Moos heart scan may have completely normalized with the inflammation gone .
Her [ blood has ] gone from a CRP of nearly 300 to 25 .
The rest of [ her blood is ] normalizing . ”
She also posted a picture of Scarlett finally nibbling into her first bites of food at the hospital .
Roberts added that Scarlett “ may be home in a few days to return for scans later . ”
She also thanked the Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS ( National Health Service )
Trust as well as the Mid Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust .
FLORIDA MAN WHO QUESTIONED CORONAVIRUS CRISIS ISSUES WARNING AFTER CONTRACTING VIRUS
Throughout the course of ongoing events , Scarlett ’s family has been appalled at the U.K. 's early plans for reopening schools in June , though school officials have since said no decision has been made .
Piers Roberts , a teacher himself , documented his thoughts on Twitter as well .
“ I want to get back to face - to - face teaching , ” Pier Roberts wrote in a tweet .
“ However , I do n’t want my daughter as an experiment .
The torture is real . ”
On April 19 , Education Secretary Gavin Williamson wrote in a tweet that " no decision has been made on when we will reopen schools . "
He reassured schools would only reopen when " scientific advice indicates it is the right time to do so . "

AOC allegedly on hook for unpaid seven-year-old tax bill: report .
2020-05-18 07:20:36 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
US Rep. Alexandria Ocasio - Cortez wants to raise taxes on the rich — just not pay her own .
The Democratic socialist congresswoman from The Bronx still has n’t paid a 7 - year - old tax bill leftover from a failed business venture .
AOC had founded Brook Avenue Press , a publishing house that sought designers , artists and writers from urban areas to help paint The Bronx in a positive way in children ’s stories , in 2012 .
AOC SAYS GREEN NEW DEAL ' COSTS US $ 0 IF PASSED ' BECAUSE IT 'S JUST A ' NON - BINDING RESOLUTION OF VALUES '
As the Post previously reported , public records show the state dissolved the company in October 2016 .
The state can make such a move when a business fails to pay corporate taxes or file a return .
The state Tax Department then filed a warrant against her now - defunct business on July 6 , 2017 , over a $ 1,618.36 unpaid bill .
As of Friday , the tax warrant had still not been satisfied , and the outstanding balance had grown to $ 2,088.78 , the department said .
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio - Cortez , D - N.Y. , listens to questioning of Michael Cohen , President Donald Trump 's former personal lawyer , at the House Oversight and Reform Committee , on Capitol Hill in Washington , Wednesday , Feb. 27 , 2019 .
( AP Photo / J. Scott Applewhite )
“ She just thinks she ’s better than everyone else .
Clearly , she ’s worse , ” said Hank Sheinkopf , spokesman for AOC ’s chief June primary - race opponent , Michelle Caruso - Cabrera , to The Post .
But Ocasio - Cortez ’s camp says the rep is challenging the $ 2,088.78 bill because it was issued “ in error . "
AOC 'S TOP AIDE ADMITS GREEN NEW DEAL ABOUT ECONOMY , NOT CLIMATE
“ The congresswoman is still in the process of contesting the tax warrant .
The business has been closed for several years now , and so we believe that the state Tax Department has continued to collect the franchise tax in error , ” said Lauren Hitt , an AOC spokeswoman .
“ As anyone who ’s tried to contest a tax bill in error knows , it takes time , ” Hitt added .
AOC , a first - term incumbent , will face Democratic voters in the June 23 primary in the 14th Congressional District covering portions of The Bronx and Queens .
She shocked the political world when she toppled Ex - Congressman and former Queens Democratic Party Chairman Joe Crowley in the 2018 Democratic primary .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In one of her first moves as a congresswoman in 2019 , AOC said taxes on the country ’s wealthiest should be increased to as much as 70 percent .
Meanwhile , the financial statement of Caruso - Cabrera , a former CNBC anchor , has yet to be publicly posted .
Her campaign spokesman said it was filed Friday – the May 15 deadline .
CLICK FOR MORE FROM THE NEW YORK POST

Utah officer allegedly kept, shared explicit extortion photos of murdered college track star: report .
2020-05-18 04:10:02 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
A Utah cop kept explicit photos of a terrified college track star who was being sextorted by her ex — and showed them off to a colleague just days before the young athlete was murdered , according to his force and a damning report Sunday .
University of Utah student Lauren McCluskey , 21 , went to campus cops in October 2018 because she was so scared of her blackmailer — twisted ex Melvin Rowland , 37 , a registered sex offender — she had already paid an initial $ 1,000 demand , the Salt Lake Tribune said .
POLICE RELEASES ‘ LAST KNOWN FOOTAGE ’ OF MISSING UNIVERSITY OF UTAH STUDENT MACKENZIE LUECK Officer Miguel Deras then saved the explicit images onto his personal phone , showing at least one male colleague — and bragging about being able to ogle them at any time , according to the Tribune ’s investigation .
Just nine days after she reported the case , McCluskey was shot dead by Rowland — who then killed himself the same day .
“ The people who were supposed to be helping and protecting Lauren were actually exploiting her , ” the murdered student ’s outraged mother , Jill McCluskey , told the paper .
“ I wish that Deras had used his time to arrest the man who was committing crimes against Lauren . ”
McCluskey ’s parents had last year already filed a $ 56 million lawsuit over the police handling of the case .
An independent review found Deras did little to investigate the case even when the victims reported attempts to lure her out of her dorm , the paper said .
LYFT DRIVER CLEARED IN DISAPPEARANCE OF UNIVERSITY OF UTAH STUDENT , POLICE SAY
“ This latest revelation makes me wonder when we ’ll hit bottom , ” her father , Matt McCluskey , told the Tribune .
One of Deras ’ colleagues confirmed to campus police that Deras had shown him an image , the force admitted to the Tribune , which said it also spoke to another officer who had overheard the initial conversations .
Deras — who later resigned and now works for Logan police , 85 miles away — did not respond to several requests for comment , the paper said .
While confirming the claim , university police insisted it was not reported at the time — and only came to light when the Tribune started making requests for records .
“ He was long gone before we had any inkling that that incident with the photo being shown had occurred , ” Lt . Jason Hinojosa told the paper .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The officer who saw the image was not disciplined because he had not asked to see it
, Hinojosa said .
Data later downloaded from Deras ’ phone was either corrupted or from after the McCluskey investigation , the paper said .
Maj .
Scott Stephenson , who oversees all police training in the state under the Utah Department of Public Safety , said it could be grounds for action against Deras ’ police certification .
“ It ’s very alarming to me , ” Stephenson told the Tribune , suggesting it might be a “ policy violation ” for having not been reported earlier .
CLICK FOR MORE FROM THE NEW YORK POST

Iran tankers sailing to Venezuela in effort to undermine US sanctions .
2020-05-17 18:43:30 +00:00 .
The vote will be an uphill battle for Senate Democrats ; Chad Pergram reports from Capitol Hill .
Iran and Venezuela are working together to circumvent United States sanctions , according to reports .
Five Iranian tankers are sailing to Venezuela , carrying at least $ 45.5 million worth of gasoline and similar products .
The capacity of the ships is believed to be around 175,000 metric tons .
“ This is like a new one for everyone , ” said Capt .
Ranjith Raja , an analyst who tracks oil shipments by sea at the data firm Refinitiv , of the gasoline shipments .
“ We have n’t seen anything like this before . ”
CLICK HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE Raja notes the ships all appear to have been loaded from the Persian Gulf Star Refinery near Bandar Abbas , Iran , which makes gasoline .
One of the vessels , the Clavel , listed its AIS destination as Caracas beginning May 12 , according to log data from ship - tracking website MarineTraffic.com .
The vessel later changed its destination as " TO ORDER " two days later , though the ship remains on route to what appears to be Venezuela as it leaves the Mediterranean Sea .
Given the crushing U.S. sanctions imposed on Iran , Venezuela appears to be the country willing to accept the shipments .
Raja said Refinitiv had no data on any Iranian gasoline shipment ever going to South America before .
Quoted by a website affiliated to Iranian state television , cabinet spokesman Ali Rabiei on Saturday said he did not have any information on the ships .
US RAMPS UP PRESSURE ON UN SECURITY COUNCIL TO EXTEND IRAN
ARMS
EMBARGO
“ We have to sell our oil and we have access to its paths , ” Rabiei said .
“ Iran and Venezuela are two independent nations that have had trade with each other and they will ” in the future .
Iran has warned America that it will retaliate against any actions should America act “ like pirates ” and attack any of the vessels .
“ If the United States , like pirates , intends to create insecurity on international highways , it will take a dangerous risk that will certainly not go unnoticed , ” warned Nour , an Iranian news agency believed to have ties to the country 's Supreme National Security Council .
VENEZUELA CLAIMS IT ' FOILED ' ATTACK BACKED BY US , COLOMBIA
Venezuela suffers a deepening economic crisis , which has driven up crime rates and deepened political divides within the country .
Crumbling public services such as running water , electricity and medical care have driven nearly 5 million people to leave .
Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro has previously turned to Iran for help , but Iran has finally responded after the coronavirus pandemic , an oil crisis and U.S. sanctions have hit the Iranian economy .
Earlier this month , Iran authorized the replacement of the rial with the toman , which is worth 10,000 rials , in an effort to curb the rampant inflation that has ravaged the country .
Iran 's currency as lost more than 60 percent of its value while consumer prices rose 37 percent just this year .
CLICK
HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
It remains unclear how the U.S. will respond to the tankers .
On Thursday , the U.S. Treasury , State Department and Coast Guard issued an advisory warning the maritime industry of illegal shipping and sanctions - dodging tactics by countries , including Iran .
The Associated Press contributed to this report .

Andrew McCarthy: Flynn case — Obama officials, FBI collaborated to invent ‘Russian collusion’ narrative .
2020-05-10 13:53:23 +00:00 .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
The FBI coordinated very closely with the Obama White House on the investigation of Michael Flynn , while the Obama Justice Department was asleep at the switch .
That is among the most revealing takeaways from Thursday ’s decision by Attorney General Bill Barr to pull the plug on the prosecution of Flynn , who fleetingly served as President Trump ’s first national security adviser .
Flynn had been seeking to withdraw his guilty plea to a false - statements charge brought in late 2017 by Special Counsel Robert Mueller .
KT McFARLAND : BARR RIGHT TO DROP FLYNN PROSECUTION – THOSE WHO FRAMED FLYNN MUST BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE
While working on the Trump transition team in December 2016 , Flynn spoke with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak , in conversations that were intercepted by our government ( because Russian - government operatives , such as Kislyak , are routinely monitored by the FBI and other U.S. intelligence agencies ) .
Among the topics Flynn and Kislyak discussed was the imposition of sanctions against Russia , which President Obama had just announced .
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR OPINION NEWSLETTER
That these conversations took place has been known for over three years — ever since a still - unidentified government official leaked that classified information to the Washington Post .
For almost as long , it has been known that the FBI became aware of the Flynn – Kislyak discussions very shortly after they happened .
What was not known until last week was that then – acting Attorney General Sally Yates was out of the loop .
She found out about the discussions nearly a week afterward — from Obama , of all people .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
This was at a White House pow - wow on Jan. 5 , 2017 .
That was the day when the chiefs of key intelligence agencies briefed top Obama White House officials on their assessment of Russia ’s meddling in the campaign .
After the main briefing , the president asked Yates and FBI director James Comey to stick around to meet with him , along with Vice President Biden and National Security Adviser Susan Rice .
Yates was taken aback when Obama explained that he had “ learned of the information about Flynn ” and his conversation with Kislyak .
She was startled because , she later told investigators , she “ had no idea what the president was talking about . ”
CLICK HERE TO READ THE REST OF THIS COLUMN IN THE NATIONAL REVIEW
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE BY ANDREW MCCARTHY

Will airfare deals disappear when the pandemic does? .
2020-05-02 09:03:28 +00:00 .
With the current flu season and the ongoing coronavirus outbreak , frequent flyers may be feeling especially nervous about getting sick during their travels .
Here 's how you can take matters into your own hands by thoroughly disinfecting your airplane seat .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
As of this writing , government authorities are telling most of us to stay home , so there wo n't be any flights to fun destinations until the all - clear sounds .
Now for the “ buts ” — you know , the “ buts ” like , “ But airfare is so affordable now , right ? ”
Yes , there are deals , like flights from Orlando to Philadelphia in early June for just $ 22 roundtrip .
But , also , do n’t worry .
The deals wo n’t disappear the moment we ’re allowed back on planes .
WHICH AIRLINES ARE REQUIRING MASKS FOR CREW OR PASSENGERS ?
Keep reading to learn more about airfare trends , along with other ways to prep for a cheap and stress - free vacation in the hopefully - not - too - distant future .
Will deals disappear when the pandemic ends ?
No .
Airlines understand that after months of social - distancing , it ’ll take something pretty special to get people back into the mindset of cramming themselves in planes , so watch for super - deals to be the bait .
And do n’t worry , these deals will be around for a while .
Airlines are hoping to make flights more attractive to Americans once the guidelines against non - essential travel are lifted , says Rick Seaney , the CEO of travel analytics company 3Victors .
( iStock )
Shop now , fly later
Normally , you make darn sure of your travel dates before you book , because change fees are killers ( up to $ 200 per ticket , even more for international flights ) .
Most change fees have since gone out the window , however , because airlines are trying to remove any hurdles that might prevent people from purchasing tickets , to fly now or fly later .
And airlines keep tweaking their change fee policies , so they become ever - more generous .
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
Holidays will be cheaper
Holiday travel will never be an out - and - out steal , but we are already seeing deals for Thanksgiving and Christmas in 2020 already .
It may even get cheaper as we get closer to the end of the year , but here are some current examples of round - trip fares , all of which were found recently via online deal - finding tools . :
Thanksgiving : Boston to Washington , D.C. , Nov. 24 - 28 , $ 183
Los Angles to Seattle , Nov. 24 - 28 , $ 267 Christmas : Chicago to Fort Lauderdale , Dec. 20 - 27 , $ 220 Dallas to Denver , Dec. 22 - 26 , $ 223 New York to London , Dec. 20 - 27 , $ 476 CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
The old rules to find cheap airfare will still work
Old rules like " fly cheaper days .
" For domestic travel , you can usually pay less by flying Tuesday , Wednesday and Saturday ; outside the U.S. , weekdays are generally cheaper than weekends .
The following airfare examples ( found April 28 ) are the cheapest flights from Los Angeles to New York in early November :
Fly Tuesday - Saturday , $ 139
Fly Friday - Sunday , $ 257 Do n’t worry about expired ID at security checkpoints
According to the folks who oversee airport security , if your driver 's license expired on or after March 1 of this year , and you ca n’t renew because the DMV is closed , you can still use the old license as acceptable identification at any TSA checkpoint , for up to a year after expiration .
CLICK HERE FOR FOX NEWS '
CONTINUING CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
One more thing : Remember how we were all supposed to have the new " Real ID " licenses in order to fly starting in October of this year ?
That ’s been pushed back a year , too .

Tucker says coronavirus lockdowns have made America 'an oligarchy managed by bureaucrats and tech moguls' .
2020-04-30 01:50:30 +00:00 .
They have no intention of abiding by the restrictions they impose on their citizens .
Tucker Carlson opened Wednesday 's edition of " Tucker Carlson Tonight " by slamming Democratic public officials who he claimed are abusing their powers and ignoring the disparity between the effects of coronavirus and those of the draconian measures they are instituting .
" Across the country , our leaders are making a mockery of the quarantines they so enthusiastically enforce , " Carlson said , later adding , " They have no intention of abiding by the restrictions that they impose on their fellow citizens , they have no interest in any scientific development ...
[ even as ] evidence accumulates that mass quarantines are not achieving what politicians claimed they would achieve , not even close . "
The host criticized former President Barack Obama for ignoring stay - at - home orders in the District of Columbia and Virginia to go golfing at the elite Robert Trent Jones Country Club in Prince William County , Va. , about 40 miles from his Washington home .
Showing a photo of Obama golfing that was published by Politico , Carlson said the former president " is clearly enjoying himself and honestly , why would n't he be ?
It 's beautiful out on the links .
" You 'll notice there are n't many people around , " the host added , " and that 's because both Virginia and Washington , D.C. , are still under quarantine .
Everybody else is locked at home , as they have been for more than a month , but not former President Obama .
For him , golfing at his country club was an essential activity . "
Carlson noted that a few days after Obama was photographed on the golf course , District of Columbia residents received an automated phone message from Michelle Obama " urg[ing them ] to stay home except if you need essential health care , food or supplies -- or go to an essential job . "
" It did n't seem to occur to her that those standards might also apply to her family and that 's why she did n't mention essential trips to your country club , " Carlson said .
Carlson then turned to the state of Maine , whose Democratic governor , Janet Mills , extended the state 's stay - at - home order through the end of May , with hotels and bars prohibted from reopening until July 1 at the earliest .
" She told every church to keep its doors locked , ensuring that many of them will go defunct and disappear forever , " Carlson said of Mills , adding that at " the very moment [ Mills ] spoke , a grand total of 33 people were being treated in Maine hospitals for the coronavirus , 33 people out of a population of more than 1.3 million people .
Over the full course of this entire epidemic , just 51 people in the state of Maine have died from the coronavirus .
CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
" You may be wondering where exactly does Janet Mills derive the power to invent a new normal for 1.3 million people , to remake human society in whatever form she chooses ? "
Carlson continued .
" Mills did not explain that . "
" People in power abuse their power -- that may be the lesson here , " he concluded .
" The arrival of a terrifying new virus from China gave our leaders more power than anyone has had in the history of this country .
Six weeks ago , America was something resembling an imperfect democracy ...
But suddenly , everything has changed .
Now , this is an oligarchy , managed by bureaucrats and tech moguls , none of whom are accountable to voters . "

Hospital chaplain who fought in Desert Storm faithfully serves on the front lines of coronavirus battle .
2020-04-27 17:21:24 +00:00 .
Mount Sinai Hospital Chaplain Rocky Walker , who served on the frontlines of Operation Desert Storm , says he feels he 's much closer to death now than he was then ; Lauren Green reports .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
With a field hospital set up in New York 's Central Park , there 's no doubt this is a battle ; a battle against an unseen enemy called the coronavirus .
Mount Sinai Hospital chaplain Rocky Walker believes he 's facing an even greater foe than he did nearly 30 years ago , when he served on the front lines of Operation Desert Storm in Iraq .
" I feel like I 'm much closer to death now than I was then .
Back then I was a field artillery lieutenant , " Walker told Fox News . "
With the COVID deaths today ...
These are all not just Americans , but these ... are innocent people . "
LAUREN GREEN : CORONAVIRUS CRISIS -- WHY SOME CHURCHES ARE DEFYING BANS ON GATHERING
Walker is one of several chaplains at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan 's Upper East Side .
He is on the front lines of this pandemic , providing spiritual and emotional support to patients and hospital staff in the city that never sleeps , which is the epicenter of America 's outbreak .
All the chaplains help people of all different faiths , even those without any stated religion .
CARDINAL DOLAN SAYS HE ADMIRES TRUMP 'S
LEADERSHIP ON HELPING RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY RECOVER FROM CORONAVIRUS
" My job is to try to figure that out ... read between the lines and then meet them where they are , " he said .
"
All chaplains are trained to walk right alongside them where their faith is . "
While most COVID-19 patients will recover – Mount Sinai has discharged at least 2,000 – many do not .
And those are the ones Walker looks after , as he is the chaplain overseeing the intensive care unit .
He sees the most severe cases of the disease , sometimes providing a FaceTime chat for families and loved ones .
He ca n't go into a patient 's room , but through the glass doors can give families a view of their loved one .
" I 'll walk right up to the door and I 'll let them see their family members , which is oftentimes very hard to see someone they love hooked up to so many different machines , " he said , adding that he uses his own phone of FaceTime calls .
"
And at that time , it 's very personal between them and the family .
Sometimes I pray with them .
Sometimes I just let them look in . "
PETER ROSENBERGER :
CORONAVIRUS — AS A CAREGIVER FOR 30 YEARS , I KNOW HEALING POWER OF THIS ONE THING
Witnessing dozens of deaths has been difficult and painful for the staff .
The hardest cases are when the end comes too quickly .
" There 's been more than one for me that the patient dies before we could bring the family in , " Walker said , choking back tears . "
And that 's hard . "
As the virus continues to claim victims , his task is to help medical staff deal with the mounting battle fatigue .
The chaplain staff has provided a small safe room for them where they can cry , scream , or just sit and ponder the existential reality .
Walker sees his job as a humbling spiritual responsibility .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
He offers these heartfelt words in prayer : " God you trust me to be with this person , right as they 're coming to meet you , " he said .
" It 's such an honor to me that all the people on Earth you would trust me to walk them or to walk with their family in this moment . "

Ted Cruz to introduce legislation preventing Chinese 'propaganda' from exploiting FCC regulations .
2020-04-25 22:32:55 +00:00 .
Foreign Relations Committee member Sen. Ted Cruz on issues surrounding China 's actions before and after the COVID-19 outbreak .
Sen. Ted Cruz , R - Texas , announced Friday that he intends to introduce legislation that would prevent outlets -- like China 's Phoenix TV -- from using Canadian or Mexican stations to spread foreign propaganda across U.S. airwaves .
The move comes as the U.S. has criticized the Chinese government for its role in spreading disinformation about the coronavirus , which is thought to have originated in a lab in Wuhan .
Cruz 's office specifically mentioned Phoenix TV , which is reportedly using a Mexican broadcast tower to transmit Chinese propaganda into the U.S.
According to a press release , this particular legislation would amend communications law in a way that would preclude the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) from granting licenses to " broadcast applicants who intend to change the language of the station they are purchasing , unless the FCC can certify that the programming of the station will never be influenced by a foreign government or governing party . "
" China should not be able to set up shop in Mexico and blanket America with propaganda , " Cruz said in the press release .
CNN 'S HARWOOD CALLS TRUMP ' AUTHORITARIAN ' FOR QUESTIONING MEDIA OUTLET TIED TO CHINA 'S GOVERNMENT
" Every year , the CCP [ Chinese Communist Party ] spends billions of dollars purchasing news outlets and waging information warfare to extend the reach of its propaganda and whitewash the unflattering and politically inconvenient truths about its totalitarian regime . "
He added : " We are seeing this play out right now as news outlets across the country parrot Chinese talking points about the coronavirus pandemic -- a pandemic that could have prevented .
I look forward to introducing this legislation when Congress returns and closing FCC loopholes that allow China to wage their information warfare from across the border in Mexico . "
Phoenix TV previously caught attention when Trump questioned one of its reporters at a press briefing earlier in April on the coronavirus .
" Sounds like a statement more than a question , " Trump said at the time .
The reporter went on to cite a Chinese ambassador 's op - ed calling for cooperation with the United States .
" Are you personally working directly with China ? "
she asked .
TED CRUZ PRAISES BILL MAHER FOR ' RANT ' ABOUT CORONAVIRUS ORIGINATING IN CHINA
After Trump cited his trade agreement with China , the reporter again asked whether he was cooperating with China .
" Who are you working for ?
China ?
" Trump responded .
Phoenix TV is partially owned by a company backed by China 's government , and U.S. intelligence has reportedly identified the station as a propaganda outlet .
CLICK HERE TO GET COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
In 2005 , The Washington Post reported that Phoenix TV CEO Liu Changle served in the People 's Liberation Army ( PLA ) and worked as a " military journalist " for Central People 's Radio , a state - owned outlet that was later renamed " China National Radio .
" The Hoover Institution at Stanford University previously labeled Phoenix TV as " quasi - official " state media , adding it was " completely controlled by [ the ] Chinese government . "
Cruz previously expressed concern about this issue in 2018 when the FCC was reviewing an application from a company -- HH Group --
tied to the Chinese government and Phoenix TV .
" I am concerned that approving this application would enhance the ability of the Chinese Communist Party [ CCP ] to broadcast objectionable political propaganda into America and to interfere in American domestic politics , " Cruz said at the time .

California county may have traced earliest US coronavirus deaths .
2020-04-22 06:18:30 +00:00 .
Fox News
Flash top headlines are here .
Check out what 's clicking on Foxnews.com .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
California officials have discovered what are possibly the earliest known coronavirus deaths in the United States .
Santa Clara County announced Tuesday that three people who died at home during February and March tested positive for COVID-19 during their autopsies .
The deaths took place on Feb. 6 , Feb. 17 and March 6 .
It was previously believed that the first US victim of the virus was a man in Washington state who died on Feb. 29 .
NEWSOM IMPLIES COMMUNITIES NOT ALLOWED TO LIFT STAY - AT - HOME ORDERS YET
Officials said they sent samples from the February deaths to the CDC for testing and that results came back Tuesday .
FILE -
In this March 16 , 2020 photo , Dr. Sara Cody , Santa Clara County Public Health Officer , speaks during a press conference headed by public health directors spanning six Bay Area counties in San Jose , Calif.
On the morning of March 15 , as Italy became the epicenter of the global coronavirus pandemic , a half dozen high - ranking California health officials held an emergency conference call to discuss a united effort to contain the spread of the virus in the San Francisco Bay Area .
That call and the bold decisions that came in the hours afterward have helped California avoid the kind of devastation from the virus in parts of Europe and New York City .
( Dai Sugano / Bay Area News Group via AP , File )
“ These three individuals died at home during a time when very limited testing was available only through the CDC , ” the county said in a statement .
“ Testing criteria set by the CDC at the time - restricted testing to only individuals with a known travel history and who sought medical care for specific symptoms . ”
— Santa Clara county statement“Testing criteria set by the CDC at the time - restricted testing to only individuals with a known travel history and who sought medical care for specific symptoms . ”
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Santa Clara officials believe that limited testing has led to an undercount of cases and deaths , a similar phenomenon that has played out in other municipalities and countries , including New York City .
“ As the Medical Examiner - Coroner continues to carefully investigate deaths throughout the county , we anticipate additional deaths from COVID-19 will be identified , ” the statement said .
Click for more from the New York Post

Deroy Murdock: Pelosi, Democrats slowing PPP relief -- They should be forced to explain why .
2020-04-20 11:45:32 +00:00 .
Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi joins Chris Wallace on ' Fox News Sunday . '
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Let ’s not hear one more consonant from Democrats and their housekeepers in the left - wing media about President Donald J. Trump ’s allegedly slothful response to the COVID-19 crisis .
Democratic lawmakers and leftist journalists now are slowing things , on purpose .
And that ’s far , far worse .
House speaker Nancy Pelosi ( D. , Calif. ) degraded herself on March 29 by telling CNN : “ As the president fiddles , people are dying . ”
NBC ’s Chuck Todd recently asked Joe Biden , “ Do you think there is blood on the president ’s hands considering the slow response ? ”
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR OPINION NEWSLETTER
Somehow , while fiddling with bloody hands , President Trump managed to impose his ban on alien - arrivals from China on January 31 , one day after the World Health Organization declared a global pandemic .
Since then , among many things , Team Trump has : deployed two hospital ships , some of whose medical personnel have disembarked to relieve their counterparts on shore .
ordered construction of 21 temporary infirmaries housing 8,540 medical - station beds .
rallied unprecedented private - sector initiatives and public – private partnerships .
accelerated trials of potential vaccines and the current or imminent use of 35 different therapeutics .
inspired Abbott Laboratories ’ five - minute COVID-19 test .
underwritten 11,000 of 29,000 National Guard personnel whom governors have activated .
supplied , as of today , via Project Air Bridge flights and other means , at least 10 million medical gowns , 44.5 million N95 masks , 63.5 million surgical masks , and 524 million gloves .
reversed the ventilator shortage , with 10,000 units delivered , as of Thursday .
Indeed , America suddenly is so awash in life - saving breathing equipment that Andrew Cuomo , Democratic governor of hard - hit New York , announced Wednesday via Twitter : “ In our hour of need , other states stepped up to help us .
We promised we would do the same .
We will be sending 100 ventilators to Michigan and 50 ventilators to Maryland . ”
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
While Trump stayed busy “ not responding , ” Democrats hurled wrenches into the works .
On the brink of bipartisan passage of COVID-19 relief , filibustering Senate Democrats stalled the $ 2.2 trillion CARES Act for five business days last month .
Pelosi abused this national emergency to demand taxpayer dollars for the musician - hating Kennedy Center , subsidies for windmills and solar panels , an ingenious ruse to fund illegal - alien - criminal - coddling fugitive cities , a federal ban on voter - ID cards , and loads more that would have done zero to remedy this homicidal virus or its economic aftermath .
CLICK HERE TO CONTINUE READING DEROY MURDOCK 'S COLUMN IN THE NATIONAL REVIEW
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM DEROY
MURDOCK

Trump announces US will halt funding to World Health Organization over coronavirus response .
2020-04-14 22:40:45 +00:00 .
President says he wo n't fire ' America 's doctor ' ; Kevin Corke reports .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
President Trump announced at the White House coronavirus press briefing on Tuesday that the United States will immediately halt all funding for the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , saying it had put " political correctness over lifesaving measures . "
Trump declared that the United States " will be forced " to pursue other options as it reviews why the WHO had caused " so much death " by " severely mismanaging and covering up " the coronavirus ' spread .
" We have deep concerns over whether America 's generosity has been put to the best use possible , " Trump said , accusing the WHO of failing to adequately keep the international community apprised of the threat of the coronavirus .
"
The WHO failed in this duty , and must be held accountable , " Trump said .
He added that the WHO had ignored " credible information " in December 2019 that the virus could be transmitted from human to human .
As early as late December , Wuhan medical staff were suspected to have contracted the disease , indicating likely human - to - human transmissibility .
On January 4 , in a statement first flagged by The National Review , the head University of Hong Kong ’s Centre for Infection warned that “ the city should implement the strictest possible monitoring system for a mystery new viral pneumonia that has infected dozens of people on the mainland , as it is highly possible that the illness is spreading from human to human . "
The Chinese government also began suppressing news about the virus .
Nevertheless , on January 8 , the WHO declared : “ Preliminary identification of a novel virus in a short period of time is a notable achievement and demonstrates China ’s increased capacity to manage new outbreaks . "
Again on January 14 , the WHO simply echoed Chinese government statements :
“ Preliminary investigations conducted by the Chinese authorities have found no clear evidence of human - to - human transmission of the novel coronavirus ( 2019 - nCoV ) identified in Wuhan , China . ”
President Donald Trump speaks about the coronavirus in the Rose Garden of the White House , Tuesday , April 14 , 2020 , in Washington .
( AP Photo / Alex Brandon )
By January 19 , the WHO had changed its tune .
“ Not enough is known to draw definitive conclusions about how it is transmitted , the clinical features of the disease , the extent to which it has spread , or its source , which remains unknown . "
Several media organizations had also uncritically cited WHO 's assurances about the coronavirus .
MEDIA , DEMS CHANGE TUNE ON
TRUMP CHINA
TRAVEL BAN
The Washington Post even ran a story quoting a Chinese official asking for " empathy " and slamming the White House for acting " in disregard of the WHO recommendation against travel restrictions . "
Former Vice President Joe Biden , just hours after Trump announced travel restrictions on China on Jan. 31 , criticized the president 's " hysterical xenophobia . "
In March , The Post finally acknowledged that critics accused China and WHO of " covering up or downplaying the severity of an infectious disease outbreak . "
This is a developing story .
Check back soon for more updates .

Trump says decision ‘shortly’ on reopening economy, as task force formed .
2020-04-13 15:16:48 +00:00 .
Trump announces he will formally convene an ' Opening our Country ' task force April 14 that will be comprised of doctors and business leaders ; reaction and analysis from economist Steve Moore and Austan Goolsbee , former Obama economic adviser .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
President Trump said Monday he would make a decision -- " in conjunction " with governors and other officials -- on reopening the economy " shortly , " as the White House forms a second coronavirus task force focused on that goal .
" For the purpose of creating conflict and confusion , some in the Fake News Media are saying that it is the Governors decision to open up the states , not that of the President of the United States the Federal Government , " Trump tweeted Monday .
TRUMP ANNOUNCES SECOND
CORONAVIRUS TASK FORCE TO REOPEN COUNTRY " Let it be fully understood that this is incorrect .
It is the decision of the President , and for many good reasons , " he continued .
" With that being said , the Administration and I are working closely with the Governors , and this will continue . "
He added : " A decision by me , in conjunction with the Governors and input from others , will be made shortly ! "
The president 's tweet comes as the " Opening our Country " task force is forming at the White House .
Sources told Fox News Monday that the second task force , which Trump first teased last Friday and is set to be formally introduced Tuesday , will be chaired by White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows .
The task force , according to sources , will also include members of President Trump ’s Cabinet , including : Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin , Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross , Agriculture Secretary Sonny Purdue , Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao , Energy Secretary Dan Brouillette , Labor Secretary Gene Scalia , Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson , U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer , and acting director of the Office of Management and Budget Russ Vought .
The task force is also expected to include acting chair of the Council of Economic Advisors Tom Philipson and White House advisers Larry Kudlow , Peter Navarro , Chris Liddell , Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump .
A source told Fox News that it is unclear whether there will be people from outside of government “ officially ” brought into this council , or if they will only be included in the consultation process .
The president first announced the task force on Friday during a coronavirus task force briefing , saying that he understands the gravity of the situation as he prepares to make a decision on whether to ease social distancing guidelines to open the economy , which has been largely shuttered in many states to curb transmission .
“ I would say without question it ’s the biggest decision I ’ve ever had to make , ” Trump said .
" It 's been my honor to be the president for the American people … I have a big decision coming up and I only hope to God it ’s the right decision , " Trump said .
TRUMP SAYS COUNTRY ' NEAR THE PEAK ' OF CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK
The White House , last month , announced it extended its guidelines to " slow the spread " to April 30 .
The president vowed Friday to listen to experts should they recommend a further extension of the White House social distancing guidelines .
The president went on to vow that he would listen to experts before making any decision , saying : ” We ’re not doing anything until we know that this country is going be healthy .
We do n’t want to go back and start doing it over again . ”
As of Monday , the U.S. reported more than 558,000 positive cases of COVID-19 and more than 22,100 deaths .

Texas gov Abbott eyes reopening state businesses as he preps executive order laying out guidelines .
2020-04-10 23:21:38 +00:00 .
Texas Governor Greg Abbott discusses his state 's coronavirus response on ' Bill Hemmer Reports . ' Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said Friday he plans to sign an executive order next week outlining guidelines for how businesses in the state can start to reopen after being shut down over coronavirus .
“ Next week I will be providing an executive order talking about what will be done in Texas about reopening Texas businesses , ” Abbott said during a Friday news conference , saying it will be done “ in a way that will be safe for that economic revitalization . ”
WHO IS GREG ABBOTT ?
HERE ARE 4 FACTS ABOUT TEXAS '
GOVERNOR
He added : “ We will focus on protecting lives while restoring livelihoods .
We can and we must do this , ”
The details of the order were not immediately clear .
On March 19 , Abbott issued an executive order closing schools , restaurants , bars and gyms in the state .
“ Working together , we must defeat COVID-19 with the only tool that we have available to us – we must strangle its expansion by reducing the ways that we are currently transmitting it , ” Abbott said at the time .
“ We are doing this now , today , so that we can get back to business as usual more quickly . ”
At White House on Friday , President Trump acknowledged he is also in the process of making a decision about when to ease the federal government 's social distancing guidelines , a move designed to encourage states to lift their own restrictions on economic activity .
" I would say without question it ’s the biggest decision I ’ve ever had to make , " the president said .
Late last month , the White House announced it was extending its guidelines to " slow the spread " to April 30 .
They were initially introduced March 16 .
TRUMP SAYS COUNTRY ' NEAR THE PEAK ' OF CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK , DEATH TOLL SHOULD BE UNDER 100,000
The president vowed Friday to listen to experts should they recommend a further extension of the guidelines .
" It 's been my honor to be the president for the American people .
… I have a big decision coming up and I only hope to God it ’s the right decision , " Trump said .
The president also said he planned to announce what he dubbed an " Opening our Country task force " made up of doctors and business leaders next week .
As of Friday afternoon , the U.S. had reported more than 491,000 positive cases of COVID-19 and more than 18,000 deaths .
Fox News ’ Brooke Singman contributed to this report .

Dana Perino: Looking for a silver lining amid the coronavirus shutdown? Here's one .
2020-04-09 14:47:21 +00:00 .
Fox News host Dana Perino hosts a daily storytime to comfort children on ' America Together . '
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
When I was a kid , I was n’t allowed to be bored .
“ Go outside and play .
Make up a game .
Use your imagination ! ”
my parents said .
And so we went outside .
We made up games and played with our friends .
We actually talked to each other ( and fought with each other ! ) .
Author Dana Perino with her younger sister .
( Courtesy of the author )
NEWT GINGRICH :
CORONAVIRUS -- GET READY FOR LIFE AFTER COVID-19 .
HERE 'S WHAT TO DO TODAY
As a busy adult , I ’ve long wanted a moment of boredom .
Boredom is a luxury !
The best part about boredom is that it can lead to wonderfully creative ideas .
Kids today have no idea what it was like to be bored — back then literally nothing was on television , no Internet , no Spotify .
The video games we had in the 1980s were visually uninteresting ( though I spent hours playing “ Frogger ” and “ Donkey Kong ” ) .
Screen time was unheard of -- and now it is something kids and parents argue about every day .
And as a result these days , kids struggle to imagine and create their own entertainment .
Then came social distancing amid the coronavirus pandemic .
There was only so much looking at our phones that our brains could take .
And we ran out of shows to binge upon .
We started to crave other ways to spend all this time at home we are having now .
We want to keep communicating , encouraging , laughing and , most importantly , connecting .
And that has led to some wonderfully creative family projects .
For instance , I ’ve loved the family dance videos , such as this one from New Zealand and the coronavirus take on " Les Miserables " by this British family .
One of my favorites of these family endeavors was a video made by Ian Prior and his family .
They recreated the introduction to “ Growing Pains ” with the theme song utilizing his very cheerful and patient family and called it “ Growing Bored . ”
CLICK HERE TO GET THE OPINION NEWSLETTER
As my assistant and I work from home to get ready for “ The Daily Briefing , ” “ Storytime with Dana , ” and “ The Five , ” we often hear my husband Peter collapsing in laughter , unable to breathe , because of a video or a meme that he ’s just been sent from his son or a friend .
Here ’s one of his favorites .
We ’ve gotten such a kick out of all of it .
It ’s really kept our spirits up .
Keep it coming , Internet !
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
When some memes have been circulated in the past I have observed that , “ Some people have too much time on their hands . ”
Well , now they do and the results are hilarious .
So if you ’re looking for a silver lining to this shutdown , where boredom has become something we are all grappling with at various times during the day , the reinvigorated imaginations of our fellow humans is certainly one .
CLICK
HERE FOR MORE FROM DANA PERINO

Gutfeld on what the bar and restaurant industry needs now .
2020-04-08 22:19:08 +00:00 .
Ideas on how to help small businesses and unemployed Americans get back on their feet .
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here .
Disasters like the coronavirus pandemic destroy things , including illusions .
For example , people assume business owners are rich .
Hardly .
In fact , profit margins are so thin , one storm could blow them over permanently .
Especially restaurants , which are getting hit hard these days .
By the time this is over , a night out will be heading to 7 - Eleven to buy beans .
TOM BASILE : WHO - CHINA CORONAVIRUS FAILURES — TIME FOR US TO DO THIS
AT THE UNITED NATIONS
We worry about waitresses , servers , and of course , every tavern 's ICU specialist , the bartender .
But to help them , you 've got to help the owners first .
It ’s like in airline emergencies , where the parent has to put on the oxygen mask before he or she helps the kids .
CLICK HERE TO GET THE OPINION NEWSLETTER
The guy who owns the bar needs help first
so then he can then pay his staff .
If not you end up with boarded - up storefronts .
A bustling street becomes skid row .
Towns die this way .
The solution ?
Glad you asked .
I once balanced my checkbook .
So , President Trump , if you 're listening – I know you are – first government needs to make loans directly to business owners .
Cut out hiring requirements .
If the owner ca n’t pay it back , it ’s on him or her .
They did this after 9/11 .
It worked .
The loans should also have a long payback period to reduce thoughts of suicide , because that ’s where debt can lead .
Sixteen percent of all suicides are financially driven .
The second part involves you , the viewer .
You need to go out and spend .
Get that oxygen pumping into the system .
But first , you need an incentive .
So how about for one year , we make meals and beverages tax - deductible ?
Take those bar tabs and mark them all " self - entertainment . "
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
So if your family goes out and spends $ 200 , you get $ 60 back later .
Let ’s put the “ fun ” in “ refund . ”
Because if we do n’t , you could lose your favorite bar .
Which sucks , because after all this , you ’re going to need a drink .
Adapted from Greg Gutfeld 's monologue on " The Five " on April 8 , 2020 .
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM GREG GUTFELD

