Tiger at Bronx Zoo tests positive for coronavirus .
2020-04-05 22:20:21 +00:00 .
A tiger at the Bronx Zoo in New York City tested positive for the coronavirus , the zoo announced on Sunday .
This is the first known instance of a tiger being infected with the virus .
Nadia , a 4 - year - old Malayan tiger , was tested after she developed a dry cough and had a decrease in appetite , according to a news release from the Bronx Zoo .
The test was confirmed by the USDA ’s National Veterinary Services Laboratory , based in Ames , Iowa .
" We tested the cat out of an abundance of caution and will ensure any knowledge we gain about COVID-19 will contribute to the world ’s continuing understanding of this novel coronavirus , " the zoo said in a statement .
Three other tigers and three African lions also exhibited similar symptoms , the zoo said .
All of the cats , including Nadia , are expected to make full recoveries .
" Though they have experienced some decrease in appetite , the cats at the Bronx Zoo are otherwise doing well under veterinary care and are bright , alert , and interactive with their keepers , " the zoo said .
" It is not known how this disease will develop in big cats since different species can react differently to novel infections , but we will continue to monitor them closely and anticipate full recoveries . "
The USDA said in a news release that public health officials believe the cats became sick after they were exposed to an asymptomatic zoo employee .
The zoo has been closed to the public since March 16 and the first tiger started to show signs of illness on March 27 .
There is still a lot that public health experts do not understand about the coronavirus .
The USDA recommends that people sick with COVID-19 restrict their contact with pets out of an abundance of caution .
"
Although there have not been reports of pets becoming sick with COVID-19 in the United States , it is still recommended that people sick with COVID-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the virus , " the USDA said in a statement .
" If a sick person must care for a pet or be around animals , they should wash their hands before and after the interaction . "

Americans play the 'waiting game' after last passenger plane from Moscow canceled .
2020-04-05 16:29:16 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
A teacher whose father is suffering from cancer is one of scores of American citizens trapped in Russia after the last passenger flight to the U.S. was canceled amid the coronavirus pandemic .
Grace Mitchell , 26 , told NBC News she had no plans to leave her home in the city of Rostov - on - Don in southern Russia , until she got a phone call from her mother saying her father ’s cancer had taken a turn for the worse .
“ All we could do really was try to get the last flight out of Russia because if I do n't get a flight soon then I probably wo n't see my dad ever again , ” Mitchell said .
So on April 3 , along with hundreds of other passengers , the English teacher from Washington stateboarded Aeroflot Flight 102 at Moscow 's Sheremetyevo International Airport , thinking it was her last chance to get home .
It was one of the few flights available out of Russia as many had been canceled when the country 's government restricted international travel in its effort to stop the spread of COVID-19 .
The U.S. Embassy in Moscow had also warned that the flight , which was scheduled to go from Moscow to New York on April 3 , could be the last one for the month .
ICU nurse Elena Salomatina , 40 , was also hoping to fly home so she could help her colleagues at Georgetown University Hospital in the District of Columbia treat the the influx of patients suffering with the COVID-19 .
She said she had already had two flights canceled by the time she boarded Flight 102 which was then aborted before takeoff .
“ I feel so guilty just sitting here , ” she said .
Aeroflot later said in a statement that the flight was canceled " following a decision by Russian aviation authorities to suspend all permits previously granted to carriers for charter flights to repatriate Russian and CIS citizens . "
NBC News has contacted the Russia government for comment .
The U.S. Embassy later sent an alert saying that it was organizing a charter flight from Moscow next week with the permission of the Russian government .
" They want us to sign up for the charter flight and wait for emails , " Mitchell said .
" So it 's just like a waiting game .
That 's what it feels like . "
Until then , passengers have had to seek lodging and wait for information .
Some are staying in hotels , but others have simply stayed in the airport .
Marina Ivanova , 48 , said she had remained in the airport 's transfer zone , because she did not have the money to spend on a hotel .
She added that she was hoping to return home to Los Angeles .
As they await news , passengers said they had been using social media to stay connected and up to date with the latest information .
“ People who live near Moscow have been offering their apartments and stuff , which is really cool , ” Mitchell said .
Salomatina added that it had been therapeutic to connect with other passengers .
“ We met in the airport actually , and it was like therapy , ” she said .
“ They 're very supportive .
We support each other and we keep our hopes up . ”
As of April 3 there were around 22,000 living in other countries , according to the U.S. Department of State .
President Trump recently announced that the department had coordinated the return of as many as 40,000 Americans from more than 400 countries .
" Our hope is that the American government will help us , " Salomatina said .
" That 's what we 're relying on . "

Biden suggests Democrats hold 'virtual convention' amid coronavirus crisis .
2020-04-05 14:10:30 +00:00 .
Former Vice President Joe Biden , the Democratic presidential frontrunner , said Sunday he thinks the Democrats may have to have " a virtual convention " later this summer amid the coronavirus pandemic .
"
Well , we 're going to have to do a convention , may have to do a virtual convention , " Biden told ABC 's " This Week " days after the Democratic Party postponed the event until mid - August .
" I think we should be thinking about that right now .
The idea of holding the convention is going to be necessary , but we may not be able to put 10 , 20 , 30,000 people in one place .
That 's very possible .
Again , let 's see where it is . "
" What we do between now and then is going to dictate a lot of that as well , " he continued .
" But my point is , I think you 've just got to follow the science , listen to the experts . "
On Thursday , the Democratic National Convention Committee announced the four - day Milwaukee convention was being postponed from the week of July 13 until the week of August 17 .
" In our current climate of uncertainty , we believe the smartest approach is to take additional time to monitor how this situation unfolds so we can best position our party for a safe and successful convention , " Joe Solmonese , CEO of the DNCC , said in a statement .
" During this critical time , when the scope and scale of the pandemic and its impact remain unknown , we will continue to monitor the situation and follow the advice of health care professionals and emergency responders . "
That decision came after Biden called for the convention to at least be delayed until August .
Meanwhile , the four - day Republican National Convention is set to begin on August 24 in Charlotte , just one week after the Democratic convention .
Last month , President Donald Trump told Fox News ' Sean Hannity there was " no way " he 's canceling the convention .
" We ’re at the end of August and I think we are going to be in great shape long before then , " he said .
Republicans have signaled in recent days that they plan to go ahead with the convention as planned .
" The word is full speed ahead , ” a Republican National Committee official told NBC News .
" We 're anticipating that by the end of August everything will be absolutely fine .
So we 'll be ready to rock and roll .
And so there are no contingency plans . "
A Republican National Convention Committee official told NBC News last week all major public events will require " new processes and protective measures " in response to the outbreak .
In his Sunday interview , Biden also called on Trump to wear a protective mask in public after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention began advising that Americans cover their faces when in public .
' I think it 's important to follow the science , listen to the experts , do what they tell you , " Biden said , adding he will don a mask when in public . "
[ Trump ] may not like how he looks in a mask but the truth of the matter is , that follow the science .
That 's what they 're telling us . "

Pandemic pushes U.S. gun sales to all-time high .
2020-04-04 00:02:34 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
WASHINGTON — Firearms sales and federal background checks for purchases soared to all - time highs in March as the coronavirus pandemic brought buyers out in record numbers , even though gun dealers were included in orders shutting down businesses in some states .
The FBI conducted 3.7 million background checks last month , according to its latest figures , the highest total since the national instant check system for buyers was launched in 1998 and 1.1 million higher than the number conducted in March 2019 .
The period of March 17 - 21 was an especially busy period for the background check system .
More than 210,000 checks were conducted on March 21 alone , the record for a single day .
The March figure also topped the previous high of 3.3 million set in December 2015 , after the Obama administration raised the prospect of restricting assault weapons after the deadly mass shooting in San Bernardino , California .
Small Arms Analytics and Forecasting , a consulting firm that tracks the firearms market , said the March queries to the background check system translated to nearly 2.6 million guns sold .
The share of handgun sales was also the highest ever , with nearly twice as many sold as rifles and shotguns .
“ We have seen an absolutely enormous spurt in handgun sales , ” said Jurgen Brauer , chief economist for the firm .
“ You have state - by - state variations , but for the nation as a whole , an absolutely unprecedented boost in handgun acquisition . ”
Andrew Arulanandam , a spokesman for the National Rifle Association , said the pandemic has many Americans concerned that they can not depend on police for protection .
" People are worried with law enforcement stretched to the maximum , now responding to only selected calls , " he said .
" They realize that when bad things happen , it 's going to be up to them to be able to defend themselves and their families . "
An industry official , who asked not to be identified by name , said gun dealers report that many of the sales in March were made to first - time buyers .
A dealer in New York , who saw the surge developing before a statewide order to shut down , said she was getting many more women customers than usual .
Some cities and states sought to include firearms dealers in ordering local businesses to close during the pandemic .
But in response to lobbying by gun rights groups , the Department of Homeland Security added firearms - related employees to the essential workforce list , which is advisory only .
Some states have nevertheless chosen to close gun stores , including New York , Massachusetts , and New Mexico , though some dealers were continuing to sell online .
In Washington state , Gov. Jay Inslee left gun dealers off the list of essential businesses , but some dealers stayed open anyway .
Closure orders elsewhere prompted a string of lawsuits , which argued that shutting them down violated the Second Amendment .
Gun control groups have supported the closure orders .
" There is no constitutional right to immediately buy or sell guns .
And there certainly is not right to spread coronavirus while buying or selling guns , " said Kris Brown of the Brady Campaign .

Wisconsin governor calls for special legislative session to consider changes to election deadline .
2020-04-03 19:24:01 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
WASHINGTON — Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers said Friday that he wants all registered voters in the state to receive an absentee ballot and have until May 19 to return them , which would effectively delay Tuesday ’s election amid the coronavirus crisis .
The Democratic governor signed an executive order Friday calling for a special session of the GOP - controlled state Legislature to consider his proposed changes to Tuesday 's election , which includes both the Democratic presidential primary between Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders and a general election for municipal officers and the state Supreme Court .
" I ca n't move this election or change it on my own .
My hands are tied , ” Evers said during a telephone news conference .
He said proceeding with the election without changes would be an “ unnecessary public health risk . ”
But Evers acknowledged the Legislature has been resistant to changing the date — as was he until recently .
“ They have made it clear they are unwilling to act , ” he said .
For weeks , both Evers and the Legislature wanted the election to proceed , even as numerous other states moved their elections or switched to all vote - by - mail .
The move comes after a federal judge in Wisconsin on Thursday said he did not have the authority to postpone the April 7 election .
The judge did , however , order the state to accept absentee ballots that arrive as late April 13 , as long as they were postmarked by election day , and he later said the state could not release results until that afternoon .
The judge also lifted a requirement that absentee ballots be signed by a witness , which voting rights advocates argued could present problems for people who lived alone and need to remain isolated during the epidemic .
State officials have urged voters to cast absentee ballots by mail as poll worker shortages threaten in - person voting , but the increased demand for over 1 million ballots put strains on the election system .
As the problems became more apparent , the state Democratic Party this week joined those calling for the election to be postponed , and Evers said he would have changed the election on his own if he could .
The Legislature , which has been in recess , is run by Republicans who want the election to proceed as scheduled .
The Wisconsin Republican Party almost immediately appealed the judge ’s ruling to the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals , accusing him of circumventing the Legislature ’s prerogative .
“ Democrats asked the federal court to quickly rewrite our election laws , and while the court rejected nearly all of their demands , the court ’s decision to change the date by which absentee ballots can be received without any limitation on the postmarked date effectively changes the date of the election , ” state GOP Chairman Andrew Hitt said in a statement .
“ Such a substantial decision normally left to our elected officials requires . ”

Stacey Abrams trends after Georgia Gov. Kemp said he didn't know about asymptomatic spread .
2020-04-03 15:08:27 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Stacey Abrams began trending on U.S. Twitter on Thursday after Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp admitted having recently learned that asymptomatic individuals can spread the coronavirus — despite warnings from health experts as early as January .
Kemp , a Republican , said in a news conference Wednesday that the information led to his statewide shelter - in - place order in Georgia .
" This virus is now transmitting before people see signs , " Kemp said .
" We did n't know that until the last 24 hours . "
" This is a game changer for us . "
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , based in Atlanta , warned as early as Feb. 12 that the coronavirus could be spread by asymptomatic people .
In January , the director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases , Dr. Anthony Fauci , said there was " no doubt " that " asymptomatic transmission is occurring . "
There were 5,444 confirmed cases and 176 deaths related to the coronavirus as of Thursday night , according to the Georgia Department of Public Health .
Kemp 's admission garnered public outcry on Twitter , with many saying Abrams would have responded in a timely manner to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 in Georgia .
Abrams , the Democratic nominee in the 2018 gubernatorial election , trailed Kemp by less than 2 percentage points in the popular vote .
She refused to concede defeat , saying Kemp , the secretary of state at the time , had mismanaged the election system through voter suppression , but she acknowledged that she could not win the race .
Abrams was the first African American woman nominated for governor by a major party in the U.S.
She later became the first African American woman to deliver a response to the president 's State of the Union address , in February 2019 .
Abrams ' name has been floated as a potential vice presidential pick for the front - runner for the Democratic presidential nomination , Joe Biden .
In an MSNBC interview Wednesday , Abrams told Craig Melvin that she " would be happy to serve " as Biden 's running mate .

Georgia's GOP governor admits he just learned asymptomatic people can spread coronavirus .
2020-04-03 06:08:34 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Brian Kemp , the Republican governor of Georgia , admitted on Wednesday that he had only just learned that asymptomatic individuals can still spread coronavirus — even though health experts had warned about the possibility as early as January .
Kemp , in a news conference Wednesday said the fact that he ’d just learned that information contributed to him issuing a statewide shelter - in - place order .
Kemp , said that he had , in just the last 24 hours , learned “ that this virus is now transmitting before people see signs . ”
“ So what we ’ve been telling people from directives from the CDC for weeks now , that if you start feeling bad stay home , those individuals could have been infecting people before they ever felt bad , ” Kemp said .
“ Well , we did n’t know that until the last 24 hours ” he added .
“ This is a game - changer for us , ” Kemp said .
On Monday , Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr. Robert Redfield told NPR station WABE of Atlanta that as many as 25 percent of infected people remain asymptomatic , and that people without symptoms do contribute to the transmission of the virus .
On Thursday , Georgia 's health department in a statement said that it had been known for weeks that infected people without symptoms were likely able to spread it , but it referred to Redfield 's comments and characterized it as new data .
" Additionally , science also now informs us that individuals who are symptomatic , are infectious up to 48 hours before symptoms appear , " the state Department of Public Health said .
" This new information tells the health care community , medical researchers , public health and governments why COVID-19 is spreading so rapidly . "
The CDC said as early as March 30 that coronavirus could be spread by asymptomatic individuals who had been infected .
However , prominent doctors had publicly discussed that finding for months .
" There 's no doubt ...
that asymptomatic transmission is occurring , " Dr. Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases , said in January , though it was unclear at the time how the widespread it was occurring .
Dr. Deborah Birx , the coronavirus response coordinator for the White House Coronavirus Task Force , said last month that young people in particular could be spreading the virus without knowing .
" Until you really understand how many people are asymptomatic and asymptomatically passing the virus on , we think it 's better for the entire American public to know that the risk of serious illness may be low , but they could be potentially spreading the virus to others , " Birx said .
Kemp said it was learning that information that led him to issue his shelter - in - place order , making him just the latest U.S. governor to do so .
The order will go into effect Friday and will last through at least April 13 .
He also said that Georgia would need additional time to help prepare its hospitals for the expected surge of infected patients .
As of Thursday evening Georgia had 5,444 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 176 deaths , according to the state ’s department of public health .

Projected ventilator demand 'outstrips the capacity' of national stockpile, FEMA tells Congress .
2020-04-03 00:02:48 +00:00 .
Federal emergency officials told members of Congress this week that the projected demand for ventilators required for coronavirus - stricken patients " outstrips the capacity " of the Strategic National Stockpile , the House Oversight Committee said Thursday .
In a March 30 meeting , officials of the Federal Emergency Management Agency told members of the Democratic - led committee that 9,500 ventilators were left in the Strategic National Stockpile , with 3,200 more expected to be acquired by April 13 , the panel 's Democrats said in a news release .
That would fall far short of the amount requested just in New York state , where Gov. Andrew Cuomo has said first responders expect to need 30,000 to 40,000 ventilators in the next two weeks .
Federal officials have already sent more than 4,000 ventilators to the state .
According to a news release from the committee 's Democrats , FEMA Administrator Peter Gaynor " has directed that ventilators be treated as a ' strategic national asset ' and released to states only after they answer a ' tough series of questions ' designed to identify an ' exigent need- to sustain life ' within 72 hours . ' "
President Donald Trump has said help is on the way in the form of 100,000 ventilators that are being manufactured , but FEMA officials said the bulk of those would not be available " until late June at the earliest , " the release said .
On Thursday , Trump announced that he was using the Defense Production Act to help the companies making ventilators get the supplies they need speed up production .
Trump said the " order will save lives by removing obstacles in the supply chain that threaten the rapid production of ventilators . " Documents released by the committee also show the federal government struggling to keep up with the demand for personal protective equipment from states and territories .
States in FEMA Region III — Delaware , Pennsylvania , Maryland , Virginia , West Virginia and Washington , D.C. — had asked for 5.2 million N95 respirator masks , but as of Monday , they had received 445,000 , less than 10 percent , according to the documents .
They also requested 194 million pairs of gloves and had received 991,000 , less than 1 percent .
The areas also asked for 15,000 body bags but had yet to receive any by the end of March .
Oversight Committee Chairwoman Carolyn Maloney , D - N.Y. , said in a statement , " The president must act immediately to take all steps within his authority to get personal protective equipment and medical supplies to our nation 's frontline responders who are risking everything to save their fellow Americans . "
In the meeting Monday , officials from the Department of Health and Human Services said they were aware in mid - January that the U.S. did not have enough N95 masks to respond to an infectious disease outbreak , the committee said .
Officials from HHS and FEMA were not able to give specific timelines for when more equipment would be obtained or made available to the states .
An official told the House on Tuesday that trying to buy masks on the open market was " chasing rabbits in an open field , " the committee said .
Download the NBC News app for full coverage and alerts about the coronavirus outbreak Maloney accused Trump of " wasting precious time " by previously downplaying the outbreak .
" Rather than casting doubt on the gravity of this pandemic , the administration should have been working around the clock to prepare and execute plans to obtain desperately needed personal protective equipment and medical supplies , " she said .
A representative for FEMA did not immediately respond to a request for comment .

Georgia's GOP governor admits he just learned asymptomatic people can spread coronavirus .
2020-04-02 15:42:46 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Brian Kemp , the Republican governor of Georgia , admitted on Wednesday that he had only just learned that asymptomatic individuals can still spread coronavirus — even though health experts had warned about the possibility as early as January .
Kemp , in a press conference on Wednesday said the fact that he ’d just learned that information contributed to him issuing a statewide shelter - in - place order in Georgia .
Kemp , said that he had , in just the last 24 hours , learned “ that this virus is now transmitting before people see signs . ”
“ So what we ’ve been telling people from directives from the CDC for weeks now , that if you start feeling bad stay home , those individuals could have been infecting people before they ever felt bad , ” Kemp said .
“ Well we did n’t know that until the last 24 hours ” he added .
“ This is a game - changer for us , ” Kemp said .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said as early as March 30 that coronavirus could be spread by asymptomatic individuals who had been infected .
However , prominent doctors had publicly discussed that finding for months .
" There 's no doubt ...
that asymptomatic transmission is occurring , " Dr. Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases , said in January , though it was unclear at the time how the widespread it was occurring .
Dr. Deborah Birx , the coronavirus response coordinator for the White House Coronavirus Task Force , said last month that young people in particular could be spreading the virus without knowing .
" Until you really understand how many people are asymptomatic and asymptomatically passing the virus on , we think it 's better for the entire American public to know that the risk of serious illness may be low , but they could be potentially spreading the virus to others , " Birx said .
Kemp said it was learning that information that led him to issue his shelter - in - place order , making him just the latest U.S. governor to do so .
The order will go into effect Friday and will last through at least April 13 .
He also said that Georgia would need additional time to help prepare its hospitals for the expected surge of infected patients .
Georgia currently has 4,748 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 154 deaths , according to the state ’s department of public health .

McConnell: Impeachment 'diverted' attention from coronavirus concerns .
2020-04-01 00:04:21 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell , R - Ky. , on Tuesday suggested that the January Senate impeachment trial of President Donald Trump distracted from crucial early efforts to respond to the emerging coronavirus pandemic .
During an appearance on conservative commentator Hugh Hewitt 's radio show , McConnell was asked about a POLITICO article published Monday that pointed to Sen. Tom Cotton , R - Ark. , as one of the first people on Capitol Hill to sound warnings on coronavirus .
The article quoted Cotton as blaming impeachment for diverting the government 's focus away from the threats .
When asked about Cotton 's early warnings , McConnell said : " It came up while we were tied down on the impeachment trial .
And I think it diverted the attention of the government , because everything every day was all about impeachment . "
McConnell also praised his Senate colleagues from pivoting “ from the most partisan thing you could possibly be involved in , the impeachment of a president , to a unanimous vote on a $ 2 trillion dollar package all within a couple of months . ”
McConnell also said he would look at any future coronavirus response bill produced by the House majority " like Reagan suggested we look at the Russians — trust , but verify . "
" I ’m not going to allow this to be an opportunity for the Democrats to achieve unrelated policy items that they would not otherwise be able to pass , " McConnell said .
The Senate leader also accused Democrats of wanting to " turn the President ’s handling of all this into a political liability for him . "
“ Goodness , I wish we could all just turn this off , you know , until we get to a period where we ’ve bent the curve and are beginning to get back to normal , ” McConnell said .
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer , D - N.Y. , responded to McConnell in a tweet posted later Tuesday .
" You may have been distracted by impeachment from acting to fight coronavirus , but not everyone was , " Schumer tweeted .
" I called for President Trump to declare a public health emergency to fight coronavirus on January 26 ! "
According to an NBC News tracker , the first major federal move to stem the spread of the virus came on January 31 , when the White House announced a travel ban on all foreigners who had been to China in the previous 14 days .
The impeachment trial ended just five days later when the Senate voted to acquit Trump on Feb. 5 .
But Trump continued to downplay the threat of coronavirus , claiming the pandemic was " very well under control in our country .
" Even as recently as March 9 , Trump tweeted , " Nothing is shut down , life & the economy go on . "
It was n't until the World Health Organization declared coronavirus a global pandemic on March 11 before the Trump administration 's public statements around COVID-19 began to shift .

ESPN moves up Michael Jordan documentary 'The Last Dance' .
2020-03-31 16:14:51 +00:00 .
ESPN announced Tuesday that it would be moving the premiere of its highly anticipated documentary about Michael Jordan 's last championship season with the Chicago Bulls to April and fans who have been starved for content after professional sport teams suspended their seasons because of the coronavirus outbreak are rejoicing at the news .
“ As society navigates this time without live sports , viewers are still looking to the sports world to escape and enjoy a collective experience , " a spokesperson for ESPN wrote in a statement .
" This project celebrates one of the greatest players and dynasties ever , and we hope it can serve as a unifying entertainment experience to fill the role that sports often play in our lives , telling a story that will captivate everyone , not just sports fans . ”
The 10 - part documentary series , titled " The Last Dance , " was originally set to be released via ESPN and Netflix in June .
However , after fans lobbied ESPN to move up its premiere via social media , the documentary will now run over five consecutive Sundays on the network from April 19 to May 17 and will be available on Netflix the following Mondays .
" April 19th ca n’t come fast enough .
I CAN NOT WAIT ! !
" tweeted LeBron James .
" The Last Dance " has been in the works since 1997 , when Bulls owner Jerry Reinsdorf and head coach Phil Jackson agreed to let an NBA Entertainment film crew follow the team for the season .
The documentary will include interviews and never - before - seen footage with Jordan 's former teammates , including Scottie Pippen , Dennis Rodman and Steve Kerr , and other prominent basketball figures .
“ Michael Jordan and the ‘ 90s Bulls were n’t just sports superstars , they were a global phenomenon , ” said director Jason Hehir in a statement .
“ For nearly three years , we searched far and wide to present the definitive story of an era - defining dynasty and to present these sports heroes as humans . "

At least 40,000 quarantined in India after single priest spread coronavirus .
2020-03-31 09:12:32 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
NEW DELHI — Authorities have quarantined at least 40,000 people in the Indian state of Punjab following a coronavirus outbreak linked to a single Sikh priest .
Baldev Singh , 70 , had transferred in an Italian airport before returning home from a visit to Germany , a public relations officer in the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district told NBC News .
After returning to his home village of Pathwala , where he was a priest at the gurdwara , or temple , Singh ignored advice to self - isolate and attended several religious gatherings .
Then he traveled to the Hola Mohalla festival with two friends in the nearby city of Anandpur Sahib .
The festival , held from March 10 to March 12 , draws around 300,000 people each day .
They camp out and enjoy mock battles , music and poetry , as well as large communal kitchens .
Swapan Sharma , senior superintendent of police in Rupnagar ,
said crowds were down by about 50 percent this year as people had been warned not to attend religious and social gatherings .
Singh died shortly after he attended the festival on March 18 , and tests revealed that the coronavirus killed him .
A number of his relatives have also tested positive .
Vinay Bublani , the district magistrate in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar , where Singh 's village is based , said authorities had identified 650 people who were in contact with Singh .
They were being tested , he added .
Authorities have also quarantined around 20 villages in the region , totaling about 40,000 people , to stop the virus from spreading .
Officials have been going door to door to inspect people showing symptoms .
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered a lockdown of the country of 1.3 billion people for 21 days on Wednesday .
Only those shopping for food or medicine are officially allowed out .
Download the NBC News app for full coverage and alerts about the coronavirus outbreak To date , 19 people have died from coronavirus in the country , and 819 people have tested positive .
However , the country has one of the lowest testing rates in the world .
Sikh temples including the famous Golden Temple — the holiest and most important pilgrimage site in Sikhism — remain open .
The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee , which manages and runs the Golden Temple in the city of Amritsar , said it would not close .
" We can not shut our doors and stop people from coming to the spiritual center for Sikh faith , " President Gobind Singh Longowal told NBC News , adding that numbers were down because of the coronavirus outbreak .

Vegas invited homeless to parking lot after coronavirus closed shelter .
2020-03-31 02:30:34 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Officials are facing criticism for using a Las Vegas parking lot as a temporary shelter after a facility was closed when a homeless man tested positive for COVID-19 last week .
Officials from Las Vegas and Clark County opened the temporary shelter at an event site lot a few miles north of the Las Vegas Strip on Saturday after determining that 500 people using Catholic Charities ' overnight facility would have nowhere to sleep , said David Riggleman , the city ’s communications director .
The lot initially included carpeting , but officials later ditched it over concerns that it could help spread the virus , Riggleman said in an email .
When mats that could easily be disinfected were n’t available , hundreds of six - foot squares were painted onto the asphalt and surrounded by metal barricades — a grid meant to prevent more cases of the disease through social distancing measures , he said .
But after images of people on the ground with little more than a sheet and blanket were published , observers pointed out — among other things — that thousands of Las Vegas hotel rooms were sitting empty because of a statewide , monthlong coronavirus ordinance .
Among the critics is Julián Castro , the former Democratic presidential candidate who served as a Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under President Barack Obama .
“ Las Vegas is now packing people into concrete grids out of sight , " he tweeted .
“ There are 150 K hotel rooms in Vegas going unused right now .
How about public - private cooperation ( resources ) to temporarily house them there ?
And fund permanent housing ! ”
Added another commentator : “ Nevada , a state in one of the richest countries in the world , has painted social - distancing boxes on a concrete parking lot for the homeless to sleep in . ”
“ This is America , ” said a third .
Riggleman said that two local facilities — a Salvation Army - run overnight shelter and a city - run “ courtyard ” that offers homeless services — could have accommodated those who otherwise would have stayed at Catholic Charities .
But concerns over social distancing led officials to “ very quickly ” set up the shelter at the 55 - acre Cashman Field site , which includes a shuttered convention center .
Riggleman said that people were n’t allowed into the actual center because it may later be used as hospital space .
He added that the county was drafting a plan to house people in hotels , but the shelter ’s closure occurred before that plan could be rolled out .
On Sunday , 117 people stayed at the temporary shelter , which will remain open until April 3 , he said .

First minor with coronavirus in New York City dies .
2020-03-30 18:28:35 +00:00 .
The first death of a minor who tested positive for coronavirus in New York City was reported Monday , as the city 's death toll rose to 790 .
Like the majority of those who have died from COVID-19 , the minor had an underlying health condition .
While the vast majority of COVID-19 deaths in the United States have been among people above 18 - years - old , this is not the first U.S. death of a minor .
Health officials in Los Angeles County announced what was reportedly the first known death of someone under 18 who tested positive on March 24 ( though health officials later stated an alternative cause of death for the 17 - year - old from Lancaster , Calif. was possible and they asked the CDC to investigate ) .
Two days later , the Louisiana department of health announced the death of a 17 - year - old in Orleans Parish with coronavirus .
On Saturday , an infant in Chicago died after testing positive for the coronavirus , Gov. J.B. Pritzker announced at a press conference , thought the exact cause of death was under investigation .
The CDC 's first preliminary analysis of deaths among COIVD-19 patients was published on March 18 , using data from two days before .
At the time , there were no reported deaths in the country among minors .
Eighty percent of deaths occurred among adults age 65 or older , with the highest percentage of severe outcomes among persons age 85 or older .
The findings reflected similar data from China .
The CDC has not released an updated analysis of deaths since the deaths of minors were reported in the country .
In the two weeks since that report , the number of cases and deaths in the country has skyrocketed .
The vast majority of people who have died from coronavirus had underlying conditions , according to the CDC .
New York City 's numbers reflect that as well .
Of the 790 people who have died from COVID-19 in New York City , all but 13 had underlying conditions .
The city department of health 's definition of " underlying conditions " includes diabetes , lung disease , cancer , immunodeficiency , heart disease , hypertension , asthma , kidney disease , and GI / liver disease .

Heather Locklear jokes that her 'Melrose Place' character's dark roots are back .
2020-03-30 18:23:22 +00:00 .
It 's been more than two decades since Heather Locklear played Amanda Woodward on " Melrose Place " — but you 'd never know it by her hair !
Locklear , 58 , made a rare appearance in an Instagram stories video Friday shot by her daughter , Ava Sambora , 22 , according to People .
In the video , she expressed thanks to those working during the coronavirus pandemic , then poked fun at the dark roots in her hair .
" I want to let you all know that the ’ 90s are back , ” she said , pointing to her dark roots .
“ Amanda Woodward ’s roots are alive and well
and I think we should embrace it ladies and a few men . ”
The actress , who wore jeans and a gray sweatshirt in the clip , ended her message by asking fans how they 've been busying themselves while in self - quarantine .
“ We will get through this by staying apart , " she said .
Locklear has been keeping a low profile since she was officially discharged from rehab last September .
She was ordered to a residential mental health facility for 30 days after she pled no contest in August following two arrests in 2018 .
The actress received four consecutive Golden Globe nominations for best actress during her time on " Melrose Place , " which aired on Fox from 1992 until 1999 .
The show followed the drama - filled lives of a group of young adults who all lived in the same trendy Los Angeles apartment complex .
The CW revived the show for just one season in 2009 , but fans began wondering if a new reboot was in the works last November when several of the show 's stars reunited for a night out in New York City .
Josie Bissett , Laura Leighton , Doug Savant , Andrew Shue , Courtney Thorne - Smith and Daphne Zuniga all posed for pics during their evening together .
Just a few months before , in August 2019 , Zuniga told TheWrap she " would be totally open " to the idea of a new " Melrose Place " reboot .
" I ’m pretty sure , that if the writing was good , that someone could gather all of us together , " she added .

Rita Wilson opens up about her ‘blessings’ after recovering from coronavirus .
2020-03-30 14:07:31 +00:00 .
Rita Wilson is thankful for her “ continued good health ” after she and her husband , Tom Hanks , tested positive for the coronavirus earlier this month .
The actress and singer , 63 , shared an update after returning to the U.S. from Australia , where she and Hanks had been self - quarantining while they recovered from COVID-19 .
In an Instagram post Sunday , she looked back on all the milestones that have occurred on that date over the years .
“ This date , March 29 , represents a time of great happiness .
I was on Broadway starring with Larry David in his play Fish In The Dark before finding out I had been diagnosed with breast cancer , ” Wilson wrote on Instagram .
“ March 29 also marks five years of being cancer free after having had a bilateral mastectomy .
I am so thankful for my health , for the doctors , nurses , friends and family who got me through that time . ”
She added that on March 29 last year , she was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
“ All of this would not be possible without good health , ” she wrote .
“ So , today , March 29 , I am celebrating the beauty of this life , the blessings God has given , and my continued good health , even now as a COVID 19 survivor .
Please take a moment today to acknowledge the amazing creation your bodies are and to thank it for doing so much . ”
Download the TODAY app for the latest coverage on the coronavirus outbreak .
Hanks revealed over the weekend that he and Wilson recently returned to the U.S. and are continuing to shelter in place and practice social distancing .
“ Many , many thanks to everyone in Australia who looked after us .
Their care and guidance made possible our return to the USA , ” he wrote on Twitter .
“ And many thanks to all of you who reached out with well wishes .
Rita and I so appreciate it . ”
The couple announced on March 11 they had both tested positive for COVID-19 after experiencing symptoms including fatigue , body aches and chills .
Wilson made the best of self - isolation , even showing off her newfound rapping skills in an Instagram video last weekend .
She and Hanks were among the first public figures to announce they tested positive for the coronavirus .
Since then , several other celebrities have revealed COVID-19 diagnoses , including Idris Elba , Andy Cohen and Colton Underwood from “ The Bachelor . ”

Coronavirus may force Olympics to be postponed, Japan's Abe says .
2020-03-24 00:01:33 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Japan 's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe acknowledged for the first time on Monday that the Summer Olympic Games could be delayed due to the coronavirus as countries began threatening to keep their athletes at home .
" If it ’s difficult to proceed in its complete form , then we must think about the athletes first and consider postponing , " Abe told Parliament .
Meanwhile , the Tokyo 2020 organizing committee told reporters it would not make a final decision for another four weeks .
Organizers need to model how delays of one , three and five months would affect the availability of venues and develop contingency plans , committee president Mori Yoshiro said .
" Cancellation would not solve any problem and would help nobody , " the international committee 's president , Thomas Bach , said Sunday .
He added that canceling the games would " destroy " the dreams of 11,000 athletes from around the world .
The preference was to still hold the games this calendar year , if possible , and cancelling outright is not an option , Yoshiro added , echoing an earlier statement by the International Olympic Committee .
The games are scheduled to begin July 24 .
The budget for staging the event has been set to $ 12.6 billion , organizers have said .
Later on Monday , President Donald Trump praised Japan 's preparation for the Olympics , saying the U.S. would follow Abe 's lead on deciding whether its athletes would attend the event .
Canada and Australia announced Sunday that they would not send athletes if the games were not delayed .
" This is not solely about athlete health — this is about public health , " the Canadian Olympic and Paralympic Committee said while urging organizers to postpone the event for one year .
The Olympic torch arrived in northern Japan last Friday .
Tokyo 2020 director general Muto Toshiro said the torch relay , slated to begin on March 26 , will still go ahead .
Japan 's Health Ministry reported 1,801 confirmed cases of the virus on Monday , including 712 from a cruise ship , with 49 deaths .
Worldwide , more than 335,000 people have been infected and more than 14,600 have died , according to Johns Hopkins University .
The Associated Press contributed to this report .

Coronavirus: U.S. Olympic Committee says more 'clarity' on 2020 games .
2020-03-22 00:02:41 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Two major sports governing bodies in the United States have asked for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games to be postponed amid the growing coronavirus pandemic .
USA Swimming and USA Track and Field 's chiefs both sent letters to the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee sharing their concerns about athletes and asking for the games , which are due begin in July , to be postponed .
But U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee CEO Sarah Hirshland said in a statement that more clarity is needed before making such a decision .
" The USOPC has complete and total empathy for the athlete community as they manage the terrible stress and anxiety caused by the current lack of certitude regarding the Tokyo Games , " Hirshland wrote .
" We understand that the athletes have concerns about training , qualification and anti - doping controls , and that they want transparency , communication and clarity to the full extent possible . "
Hirshland said that the committee has also heard from some athletes who want to make sure their opportunity to compete in the games is n't prematurely taken away " until we have better clarity . "
She said that the U.S. committee is in communication with the International Olympic Committee and the International Paralympic Committee and has been following advice from the World Health Organization .
" They believe that it is premature to make a final call on the date of the Games , and we believe that we should afford them the opportunity to gather more data and expert advice before insisting that a decision be made , " the statement read .
Her response came after USA Swimming CEO Tim Hinchey asked for the games to be postponed by a year .
In a letter posted Friday on Twitter , he said he has watched athletes " struggle to find ways to continue to prepare and train " as the virus spreads across the globe .
" Our top priority at Olympic Swimming has been , and will continue to be , the health and safety of our athletes , coaches , staff , volunteers and other members , " Hinchey wrote .
Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak "
Pressing forward amidst the global health crisis this summer is not the answer , " he wrote , adding that making everyone 's health and safety a priority is the " responsible thing to do . "
" Everyone has experienced unimaginable disruptions , mere months before the Olympic Games , which calls into question the authenticity of a level playing field for all , " he continued .
USA Track and Field CEO Max Siegel expressed similar concerns , telling Hirshland in a letter also posted on Twitter that it 's hard for athletes to find a safe environment for training .
He said moving forward with the Olympics in July " would not be in the best interest of our athletes . "
" We acknowledge that there are no perfect answers , and that this is a very complex and difficult decision , but this position at least provides our athletes with the comfort of knowing that they have adequate time to properly prepare themselves physically , mentally , and emotionally to be able to participate in a safe and successful Olympic Games , and that they can shift their focus toward taking care of themselves and their families , " he wrote .
The 2020 Tokyo Games are scheduled to begin July 24 .
The Olympic Flame arrived in Japan on Friday .

U.S. tax filing day moved from April 15 to July 15 .
2020-03-21 00:01:03 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Tax Day is being pushed back until July while the nation copes with the effects of the coronavirus , Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin announced Friday .
" At @realDonaldTrump ’s direction , we are moving Tax Day from April 15 to July 15 .
All taxpayers and businesses will have this additional time to file and make payments without interest or penalties , " Mnuchin said in a pair of tweets .
" I encourage all taxpayers who may have tax refunds to file now to get your money . "
Download the NBC News app for full coverage and alerts about the coronavirus outbreak The announcement follows one earlier this week that individuals and businesses would be allowed to delay paying their 2019 tax bills for 90 days past the usual April 15 deadline .
Mnuchin said then that individuals would be able to delay paying up to $ 1 million in tax payments , while corporations would be able to defer payment on up to $ 10 million .
Individuals and corporations would not be subject to interest or penalty payments during that period of time , Mnuchin said .
The delay is part of an effort to keep $ 300 billion in the economy while people and companies deal with the unprecedented financial impact caused by the coronavirus .
In its Wednesday announcement on the initial 90 - day delay , the Internal Revenue Service cautioned that the delay applied only to federal income taxes , not state income taxes .
" Taxpayers also will need to file income tax returns in 42 states plus the District of Columbia , " the agency said on its website .
"
State filing and payment deadlines vary and are not always the same as the federal filing deadline .
The IRS urges taxpayers to check with their state tax agencies for those details . "
The Treasury Department was expected to comment later Friday .

Despite tax day extension, coronavirus restrictions still hobble tax payers and preparers .
2020-03-20 16:06:07 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Tax payers and tax preparers now have an extra 90 days to finish up their tax filing , after Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin announced via tweet that tax day would be moved from April 15 to July 15 .
" It is such a big relief and I know that taxpayers and preparers will benefit , " Brian Streig , a CPA in Austin , Texas , told NBC News .
Preparers and accountants were scrambling to file all their clients ’ tax returns ahead of the April 15 deadline while also trying to practice “ social distancing ” and follow President Donald Trump ’s recommendation to work from home , amid the coronavirus outbreak .
One tax preparer in Massachusetts , who wished to remain anonymous , told NBC News , her work required her to come into contact with " dozens , if not close to 100 people daily . ”
" Most clients are still coming in for their appointment because the majority still believe this is being blown out of proportion , ” she added .
The National Society of Accountants sent a letter to the president of the Internal Revenue Service explaining that many firms were worried they would not be able to file everything before April 15 .
“ These clients are reporting day - to - day business disruptions including travel restrictions , supply chain interruptions , and diminished customer traffic resulting in reduced revenue and limited access to tax documentation .
Our members are indicating that these developments present significant challenges for clients in organizing tax records and making final and/or estimated tax payments , ” the letter said .
On Wednesday , the IRS announced it would extend the payment deadline to July 15 , giving individuals 90 extra days to pay what they owe the government .
However , this extension did not apply to the actual filing date of April 15 — less than one month away .
Streig said extending the filing date gives his clients more clarity .
" Trying to explain the difference in the filing deadline versus the payment deadline was a distinction most did n't understand right away , " he said .
With many CPAs and tax preparers being urged , or in some states , required , to work from home , they were unable to complete the necessary paperwork in order to file all the returns on time .
Streig said his firm sent everyone home , and with kids home from school and the current situation it ’s impossible to “ expect the same productivity going on right now , it ’s just not going to happen . ”
In order for tax preparers to be able to file their clients ’ returns , they need specific documents that are typically dropped off at the office .
The coronavirus pandemic has made it more difficult for preparers to obtain these documents , since people must stay at home .
Some firms have systems in place that allow their clients to submit the documents electronically , but for some older individuals this is n’t always an option .
“ Many of these people do n’t have access to scanners .
Under better circumstances they could see their kids and they could help them but they ’re not supposed to do that right now , ” Streig told NBC News .

Evangeline Lilly criticized for refusing to self-quarantine, says she values her 'freedom' .
2020-03-19 18:23:47 +00:00 .
These days , many celebrities are using their public platforms to urge people to follow the advice of experts when it comes to the coronavirus , and for the moment , that means encouraging social distancing and self - quarantine to help “ flatten the curve . ”
But not everyone in Tinseltown is following that path during the pandemic .
This week , Marvel Universe star and former “ Lost ” actress Evangeline Lilly used her Instagram to inform her fans and followers that it 's “ business as usual ” for her family .
“ Just dropped my kids off at gymnastics camp , ” she wrote alongside a photo of a cup of tea .
“ They all washed their hands before going in .
They are playing and laughing .
# businessasusual . ”
On March 16 , the coronavirus task force urged Americans to avoid gathering in groups of more than 10 people .
It did n’t take long for commenters to inform Lilly that it ’s anything but usual for most people , and carelessness in the age of coronavirus could be dangerous for others .
“ Please stay at home with your family .
Flatten the curve and save lives .
Irresponsible , ” one person wrote .
Another added , “ Definitely , listen to your own uneducated conclusions , and not those of life long health professionals . ”
And another explained , “ Social distancing is key in fighting this virus and preventing the elders and those with a weak immune system .
Children can carry the virus without any symptoms and transmit it to others .
There is no business as usual with something as serious as this where the health of millions is threatened . ”
But the 40 - year - old stood her ground when confronted by fans .
“ I am also immune compromised at the moment , ” she wrote , after revealing that she was living with her father , who she says has stage 4 leukemia .
“ I have two young kids .
Some people value their lives over freedom , some people value freedom over their lives .
We all make our choices . ”
She fired back at another commenter stating , “ Where we are right now feels a lot too close to Marshall Law for my comfort already , all in the name of a respiratory flu . "
In response to others , she hinted that she had bigger fears about leaders using “ this moment to steal away more freedoms and grab more power . "
And when one person wrote , “ I think something is going on behind the scenes but that ’s just me , every few years some disease come out quick then disappears as quick as it came . ”
Lilly agreed , noting , “ There ’s ‘ something ’ every election year . ”
Lilly is n't the only star to face backlash this week .
Vanessa Hudgens was challenged by angry fans after she called the coronavirus shutdowns " bull---- " and said people dying as a result of the virus is " inevitable " during an Instagram Live video Tuesday .
But not long after being called out for what many found to be callous remarks , she had a change of heart .
" I realize my words were insensitive and not at all appropriate for the situation our country and the world are in right now , " she wrote .
"
This has been a huge wake up call about the significance my words have , now more than ever . "

These food companies are giving away free meals for medical workers .
2020-03-18 16:02:47 +00:00 .
Uber and Sweetgreen are giving back to the medical professionals who are working around the clock during the coronavirus outbreak .
On Monday , both companies announced plans to offer free meals to healthcare workers and first responders in the coming days .
Uber will give away over 300,000 meals to those on the front lines in the U.S. and Canada .
“ We ’re doing what we can , ” the company ’s chief financial officer Nelson Chai told CNBC .
Uber 's food delivery platform Uber Eats is also sending some love to small businesses during this difficult time and nixing delivery fees in some of its markets .
“ As more customers are choosing to stay indoors , we ’ve waived the Delivery Fee for the more than 100,000 independent restaurants across US & Canada on Uber Eats , ” the company said .
“ We will also launch daily dedicated , targeted marketing campaigns — both in - app and via email — to promote delivery from local restaurants , especially those that are new to the app . ”
The company said they hope the gesture sends a bit of sunshine to medical workers who are working overtime to protect the public : " We know that the work of medical and crisis response teams can be tireless , and the hours long ; we hope we can help in a small way . "
Sweetgreen , the salad - based fast - casual chain , is also giving thanks to medical professionals in a post on Instagram , writing , " We ’re so grateful for the hospital workers + medical personnel who are putting others before themselves during this critical time . "
The company also vowed to do their part to help keep healthcare professionals well - fed during this hectic time : " In the midst of the current crisis , we ’re dedicating our Outpost operations and teams to support those on the front lines by delivering free , fresh sg salads + bowls to hospitals in the cities we serve . "
Many food companies are also coming up with creative ways to help Americans enjoy their food despite temporary dining room closures .
In recent days , the following restaurants announced free delivery and other incentives for those practicing " social distancing " at home .
Work in a hospital ?
Stop by your local & Pizza restaurant for a free pizza .
All you have to do is present your valid ID .
Ca n't leave work ?
Text 200 - 03 # HERO to get your pie delivered .
Fried chicken lovers can get free delivery through KFC 's website , Grubhub or Seamless until April 26 .
In - store pick - up is also available at some locations .
The fast - casual chain is offering free delivery on all orders over $ 10 through March 31 .
Along with the service , the company is also offering a tamper - evident packaging seal to keep your food safe and allowing customers to leave special instructions for delivery drivers to limit direct contact .
With many Moe 's dining rooms closed , the restaurant is offering pick - up options and free delivery on all app and website orders of $ 10 or more through April 10 .
When the pizza craving inevitably hits , Blaze Pizza is here for you , offering free delivery across the country .
All you have to do is order on their website or app and spend $ 10 or more .
You can also score free delivery on Postmates until March 22 or on DoorDash until March 22 .
Del Taco is offering free delivery on Postmates through March 20 ( use the code DELTACONOW ) and free delivery on DoorDash for first - time customers .
The brand is also offering sealed delivery packaging to minimize risk for customers .
Along with offering sealed , tamper - proof delivery bags , the company is also offering free delivery on Grubhub at participating locations until April 7 .

Trump tweets about coronavirus using term 'Chinese Virus' .
2020-03-17 03:13:43 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
President Donald Trump drew backlash Monday night after posting a tweet using the phrase " Chinese Virus . "
After giving an address Monday afternoon in which he said the country may be headed toward recession and urged social distancing , he later tweeted his confidence in and support for various sectors while including the offensive remark .
" The United States will be powerfully supporting those industries , like Airlines and others , that are particularly affected by the Chinese Virus .
We will be stronger than ever before ! "
he wrote .
Many officials , including the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , have criticized the phrase as inaccurate and potentially harmful in promoting racist associations between the virus and those from China .
The comments prompted massive backlash from many social media users , including New York Mayor Bill de Blasio , who said the tweet was misplacing blame and could put more Asian Americans in danger .
Trump has previously referred to COVID-19 as a " foreign virus , " and he has also retweeted a supporter who used the term " China Virus .
" His newest reference comes days after CDC Director Robert Redfield agreed at a House hearing that it was " absolutely wrong and inappropriate " to use labels like " Chinese coronavirus , " as the virus had expanded beyond China to other parts of the world .
The were roughly 3,500 confirmed cases of the illness in the U.S. as of Monday night .
Many others have condemned the practice of identifying the illness by location or ethnicity , including the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus , which called on its fellow legislators to " help us prevent hysteria , ignorant attacks , and racist assaults that have been fueled by misinformation pertaining to the 2019 novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) " by sharing only confirmed and verifiable information .
While some , including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi , D - Calif. , publicly condemned the racism tied to the pandemic , others , such as House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy , R - Calif. , have continued to use the offensive language , pointing to outlets that have used similar wording .
The Asian American Journalists Association released guidelines for responsible reporting in February to curb " fueling xenophobia and racism that have already emerged since the outbreak . "
Rep. Grace Meng , D - N.Y. , previously told NBC News that it 's possible that several GOP legislators have continued to use the rhetoric to distract from Trump 's handling of the pandemic .
She said it 's likely that officials are using China or Asian Americans as scapegoats " versus actually dealing with the problem at hand . "
Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak Along with the virus ' spread , there has been an increase in racist incidents and discrimination targeting Asian Americans .
Two Hmong guests endured harassment and were later barred from staying at first a Super 8 and then a Days Inn in Indiana .
In California , an Asian teen was bullied , assaulted and sent to the emergency room over fears surrounding the pandemic .
De Blasio held a media roundtable Wednesday to condemn coronavirus - related discrimination against Asian communities in New York .
" Right now , we 've seen particularly troubling instances of discrimination directed at Asian communities , particularly in Chinese communities , " he said .
" This is unacceptable . "

Can you get coronavirus twice? 12 top questions, answered .
2020-03-17 00:03:06 +00:00 .
The new coronavirus is causing fear and uncertainty around the world .
While there are still a lot of unknowns about coronavirus and the disease it causes , COVID-19 , the experts do know a great deal and their advice can help guide your day - to - day interactions .
Here are most common questions people are asking about the disease with answers collected from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , the World Health Organization , infectious disease experts and NBC News medical correspondents .
It ’s a new strain of coronavirus — part of a large family of viruses that can infect people and animals , and cause illness .
This most recently discovered type of coronavirus and the disease it causes were unknown before a human outbreak was first identified in Wuhan , China , at the end of 2019 .
Counting the new strain , there are now seven known coronaviruses that can infect people .
NBC News medical correspondent Dr. John Torres answered this one on TODAY : " It does n't look like it , " he said .
" It looks like once you get it , your body develops immunity to it and you get antibodies
and you ca n't get it again .
We do n't know how long that protection lasts , though .
Maybe a year or longer . "
Coronaviruses that previously only infected animals can sometimes evolve and become a new human coronavirus .
Experts suspect this is what happened with this new strain .
The infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered coronavirus is called COVID-19 .
The virus is now spreading from person to person .
The most common symptoms of COVID-19 include : Some patients may have aches and pains , nasal congestion , runny nose , sore throat or diarrhea .
Evidence so far suggests the virus that causes COVID-19 is mainly transmitted through contact with respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes , rather than through the air .
But it ’s a new virus and there are many unknowns .
It ’s possible droplets in the air could make others sick even after an ill person has left the area .
Another unanswered question is whether infected people can spread the disease even when they feel fine , noted NBC News medical contributor Dr. Natalie Azar .
" Can you walk around and have coronavirus and either be really mildly symptomatic and think you have a cold ?
Or be completely asymptomatic and transmit it ? "
she wondered .
It 's an answer experts are trying to figure out .
Yes , about 2 % of people with the COVID-19 have died .
That 's compared to about 0.1 % mortality for the flu .
Older people and those with existing medical problems like high blood pressure , heart problems or diabetes , are more likely to develop a serious illness that leads to pneumonia and makes it difficult to breathe .
The majority of people who have had the disease , 80 % , have had mild symptoms and have n’t required hospital care , said Dr. Roberto Posada , a pediatric infectious disease specialist at Mount Sinai Kravis Children 's Hospital in New York City .
“ Unfortunately , 20 % of infected people develop more significant disease , ” he noted .
“ Most of those who have died have been older adults . ”
People who start feeling sicker several days into the disease should seek medical attention , Azar noted .
More than 6,000 have died of the coronavirus since the start of January , according to NBC News reports , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and figures from state government leaders and health officials .
As of March 15 , NBC News reported that COVID-19 cases were confirmed in at least 110 countries .
As of March 16 , according to NBC News there were more than 3,500 cases confirmed in the U.S.
There have been 67 deaths .

How Target, Walmart and other stores are responding to coronavirus .
2020-03-16 21:28:00 +00:00 .
As coronavirus continues to spread across the United States , many retailers are temporarily shutting their doors while others are cutting store hours to discourage crowds and slow the spread of infection .
Here 's a breakdown of how your favorite brands are handling the health crisis .
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic , 24 - hour U.S. stores will be operate from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. until further notice .
“ This will help ensure associates are able to stock the products our customers are looking for and to perform cleaning and sanitizing , ” the company ’s executive vice president and chief operating officer , Dacona Smith , explained in a statement .
All retail stores in the U.S. will be closed through March 29 .
Associates will be paid for hours scheduled , a spokesperson told TODAY Style in an email statement .
The athletic apparel giant shuttered all of its stores in the U.S. on Monday and will keep them closed until March 27 .
Employees will continue to be paid during this period .
The company has trimmed store hours across its brands , which include Gap , Old Navy , Athleta , Banana Republic and Janie and Jack .
It is also closing more than 100 select stores based on guidance from local government and health officials .
In an emotional letter to customers , Glossier founder and CEO Emily Weiss announced that the beauty brand would be closing its retail locations starting March 13 .
“ To everyone reading : We ’re not alarmists , we ’re realists , ” Weiss wrote .
“ While this may not be the right decision for every company , it ’s the one where we feel we can make an impact . ”
Food sampling is suspended and surfaces such as checkout lanes and touch screens are being cleaned every 30 minutes .
Disinfectant wipes , hand sanitizers and hand and face wipes are limited to six per customer , according to signs posted in Target stores .
The company has closed all shops , including Hollister branded stores , in North America until March 28 .
Employees will continue to be paid .
The luxury athleisure company will close stores in North America through March 27 .
It introduced a relief pay plan for employees with 14 days of salary protection if they are asked to self - quarantine due to coronavirus .
The stores , which are all operated by parent brand URBN , “ will not reopen until at least March 28 , ” the company said in a statement .
Employees will continue to be paid .
The company expects stores across the U.S. and Canada to remain closed through March 27 .
It will continue to pay its retail employees for scheduled hours .
“ We are facing an unprecedented global pandemic , and our first priority is to do the right thing for the health and safety of our employees and our consumers , ” Chip Bergh , president and chief executive officer of Levi Strauss & Co. , said in a statement .
"
We have faced many challenges in our 167 - year history , and we will continue to navigate difficult times as we always have — by putting our people first and managing this business for the long term . ”

Broadway finds a way for the show to go on amid coronavirus .
2020-03-15 17:53:45 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
When New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo banned all gatherings of 500 people or more , causing Broadway theaters to dim their lights through April 12 , the theater community went online to deliver show tunes to disappointed fans .
After the ban went into effect Thursday at 5 p.m. , the musical “ Hamilton ” tweeted songs throughout the evening to engage with fans using # HamAtHome .
“ Hamilton ” creator Lin - Manuel Miranda also released a never - before- heard song called “ I Have This Friend , ” tweeting , “ Wish I could send you peace of mind via this app .
Alas .
But I can send you music no one 's heard . ”
A video posted by Tony Award - winning actress Laura Benanti went viral Friday as she asked any high school students prevented from performing in their high school musicals because they were canceled due to coronavirus to send her videos of them performing songs .
“ I know for me , my high school musical was a lifesaver , ” Benanti said in the video .
“ So , if you would like to sing a song that you are not going to get to sing now and tag me , I want to see you .
I want to hear it . ”
Videos from students of all ages singing songs that they were meant to perform — known as “ Sunshine Songs”—have since flooded in , creating a space for people to celebrate their work that likely would not have been seen otherwise .
“ You know , a lot of people buy tickets and buy flights six months to a year in advance , ” said Alan Henry , digital managing editor for BroadwayWorld .
“ So it was really just , how do we bring a little bit of joy during this less than easy time for a lot of people ? ”
The videos encourage viewers to donate to Broadway Cares / Equity Fights AIDS , which had to cancel its annual concert " Broadway Backwards Fundraiser " on March 16 , as well as the Actor ’s Fund , an organization that provides assistance to people in the entertainment industry in distress .
“ If anyone likes the videos , instead of the money they would spend on a Broadway ticket , maybe sending a few dollars their way as they help out a community that ’s going through a very tough time . ”
Playbill also started a daily Twitter thread called # PlaybillTunes as a place for Broadway stars to make recommendations for cast albums .
While disappointed that the theaters are closing for now , some people who held tickets for shows during the next month say that they understand why it ’s necessary for them to temporarily close .
Ryan Lefebvre drove four - and - a - half hours to New York City from New Hampshire with his family to watch “ Hadestown , ” “ Beetlejuice , ” and “ Six ” this weekend before finding out the shows were canceled .
“ I kind of see the big picture and understand where it ’s all coming from , ” said Lefebvre , who works in health care consulting .
" I think that it was really good that they did that .
I certainly , from a personal level , was really bummed . ”
After working with Ticketmaster and Telecharge for refunds to the shows , Lefebvre was able to rebook tickets for all three shows next month .
The Broadway League released a statement Thursday urging people to contact their points of purchase to receive refunds or exchanges on tickets for performances through April 12 .
Questions still swirl around what will happen to those who have been left unemployed for the next month .
“ As theaters and concert halls go dark , we must ensure that musicians and other arts workers are not left behind , ” said Adam Krauthamer , president of the Associated Musicians of Greater New York , in a statement Friday .

White House doctor says President Trump does not need coronavirus test .
2020-03-14 05:27:44 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
The president does not need to take a test to determine if he 's positive for coronavirus because two interactions he had with known patients were " low risk , " a White House doctor said in a memo released Friday .
The memo was made public hours after Trump said he would be tested .
" Not for that reason , but because I think I will do it anyway , " the president said Friday when asked about his interaction at his Mar - a - Lago resort last weekend with an aide to Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro , Fabio Wajngarten , who turned up positive .
Physician to the president , Sean P. Conley , argued that because Trump 's interaction was minimal , including a handshake , and because Wajngarten and another patient were not exhibiting symptoms at the time they socialized with the president , Trump 's unlikely to get the virus .
" All interactions occurred before any symptom onset , " Conley wrote .
" These interactions would be categorized as LOW risk for transmission per CDC ( U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ) guidelines , and as such , there is no indication for home quarantine at this time . "
" Additionally , given the President himself is without symptoms , testing for COVID-19 is not currently indicated , " he wrote .
The CDC has published reports recommending testing for those who have had " close contact with a confirmed or suspected case of COVID-19 " or have experienced " potential exposure through attendance at events or spending time in specific settings where COVID-19 cases have been reported . "
The CDC has said , additionally , that " individuals who have had travel to high - risk areas or are contacts of patients with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 should be monitored for development of consistent symptoms and signs ( fever , cough , or dyspnea ) . "
" Such clinical manifestations should prompt at least self - isolation with social distancing and clinician assessment for the need for medical evaluation , " the centers said .
The White House physician detailed that Trump also shared a table last weekend at his resort with a person who later tested positive .
Experts say the virus , which can be deadly for the elderly and those with underlying health conditions , is spread through person - to - person contact and through the air .
Some have noted that while top federal health experts advise Americans not to shake hands , the president has continued to do so .

'The Kelly Clarkson Show' suspends production over coronavirus concerns .
2020-03-14 02:38:28 +00:00 .
As Hollywood came to a screeching halt Thursday and Friday over the coronavirus pandemic , dozens of television shows announced production would be suspended , including " The Kelly Clarkson Show . "
The " American Idol " winner and daytime talk show host posted the news on Instagram Friday .
" As you may know , production on The Kelly Clarkson Show was temporarily shut down late last night and out of concern and care for everyone ’s safety , we have chosen to postpone the April 1st opening of my Las Vegas residency , Invincible , until July , " Clarkson wrote .
" Details regarding ticket replacement are forthcoming and I ca n’t wait to see you this summer .
For now , please keep your loved ones close , safe and healthy . "
As of Friday evening , most other daytime and late - night talk shows have suspended production as well .
NBC announced Thursday that beginning Friday , " The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon " and " Late Night With Seth Meyers " would both suspend production through a previously scheduled hiatus , meaning no new episodes will be taped until at least March 30 .
" The Ellen DeGeneres Show " will shut down until March 30 , the show 's host tweeted .
We just want to take every precaution to ensure that we do our part to keep everyone healthy , " DeGeneres said .
" I love you guys , and ca n’t wait to come back .
I ’m already bored . "
HBO said as of Monday , " Last Week Tonight with John Oliver " and " Real Time with Bill Maher " will both go on temporary hiatus .
A representative from ABC Entertainment told NBC that " Jimmy Kimmel Live " will also suspend production starting Monday .
" We will continue to monitor this and hope to be back on the air with new shows Monday , March 30 , " they said .
Netflix also shut down all scripted TV and film physical production and prep for two weeks in the U.S. and Canada to comply with government restrictions in the regions , a spokesperson told NBC News .
Diana Dasrath of NBC News contributed to this story .

8 places to enjoy free pie and cheap pizza on National Pi Day .
2020-03-14 00:04:28 +00:00 .
Whether you 're great at solving math problems or just love food freebies ( who does n't ? ) , National Pi Day is an occasion to be celebrated — and it 's just around the corner .
For those who need a refresher , pi is the never - ending mathematical constant beginning with three digits ( 3.14 ) and is represented by the Greek symbol " π . "
The day was officially recognized by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2009 , but even before that , it 's been a popular day for celebrating round foods .
Many restaurants , both local and national , that sell pizza pies or regular sweet ones take advantage of the day to give customers a slice of the good stuff at a better price .
Here 's a list of places partying for pi on March 14 .
Download the Blaze Pizza app to get entire pizza pies for just $ 3.14 anytime after 3:14 p.m. local time on March 14 .
Update March 13 , 2020 : Blaze cancelled its in - store promotion due to the COVID-19 outbreak .
Instead , app users will be able to receive the $ 3.14 pizza reward on Monday , March 16 , which will be redeemable anytime through the end of the year .
To score the deal , customers must download the app before 11:59 p.m. on Sunday .
This casual restaurant chain with a hefty bakery will dole out slices of pie free of charge between 4 p.m. and 10 p.m. on March 14 .
To enjoy a slice , just be sure to become an e - club member first by signing up on the restaurant 's website .
From 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on March 14 , grab any one - topping pizza at Fired Pie for $ 3.14 with the purchase of any drink .
The online shop for gourmet gift boxes of fruits , chocolate and nuts , also has pies for sale .
CouponFollow , a site that provides various promo codes and deals for shopping and eating , provided a code to get 20 % off all Harry & David pies .
Just enter HDCF20 when you place your order .
This restaurant and bakery is certainly celebrating since its known for delicious pies .
The chain has a coupon on its website that can be used for one free slice when people buy a full - priced entrée on March 14 .
This nationwide pizza chain is offering a buy - one , get - one deal for the mathematical holiday .
When customers order one large pizza at regular price , they can get the second for — you guessed it ! — $ 3.14 .
Papa Murphy 's , a pizza chain with 1,300 locations across the U.S. and Canada , will give folks 31.4 % off their orders all day on March 14 when they use the code PIDAY .
The only catch is that customers will have to spend at least $ 20 , but that 's pretty easy to do when we 're talking about pizza .
Enjoy pizza pies for just $ 3.14 all day on March 14 at this Georgia - based pizzeria and panini chain with locations in 19 states .
To cash in on the cheap eats , patrons have to download the Your Pie app first .

Disney, Universal and LEGOLAND theme parks to close over coronavirus .
2020-03-14 00:03:18 +00:00 .
As fears over the new coronavirus continue , several theme parks around the country have decided to shutter their doors .
Both Walt Disney World and Disneyland announced Thursday the parks will close this weekend .
Disneyland in Southern California will shut down on Saturday , March 14 , while Disney World in Orlando will close Sunday , March 15 , according to a release from Disney .
They will remain closed through the month of March .
Disney Cruise Line is suspending all new departures starting Saturday .
Universal Studios Hollywood and LEGOLAND California also announced plans to close starting Saturday , and Universal Orlando 's and LEGOLAND Florida 's theme parks will close starting Monday , March 16 .
Those parks anticipate remaining closed until late March .
" While there have been no reported cases of COVID-19 at Disneyland Resort , after carefully reviewing the guidelines of the Governor of California ’s executive order and in the best interest of our guests and employees , we are proceeding with the closure of Disneyland Park and Disney California Adventure Park , " a statement on Disney 's website said .
The hotels at Disneyland Resort will stay open until Monday to give " guests the ability to make necessary travel arrangements , " the statement added .
" We will monitor the ongoing situation and follow the advice and guidance of federal and state officials and health agencies .
Disney will continue to pay cast members during this time . "
The hotels at Disney World will remain open until further notice , the company said in a statement .
" Disneyland Resort will work with guests who wish to change or cancel their visits , and will provide refunds to those who have hotel bookings during this closure period , " the statement added .
" We anticipate heavy call volume over the next several days and appreciate guests ’ patience as we work hard to respond to all inquiries . "
This is the fourth time in history that Disneyland has fully suspended its operations .
The other occasions were the morning after John F. Kennedy 's assassination in 1963 , the Northridge earthquake in 1994 , and the September 11 terrorist attacks in 2001 .
The New York Times reported Disney World has closed on several occasions for different hurricanes including Matthew in 2016 ,
Frances in 2004 and Floyd in 1999 .
On Thursday morning , California Governor Gavin Newsom issued an executive order in which he recommended all gatherings of 250 people or more be postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak .
At the time , he said the theme parks ( as well as casinos , movie theaters , etc . ) had " unique circumstances " and were excluded from the state 's guidelines .
He applauded the choice to close Disneyland in a tweet Thursday night .
All the parks ' commercial shopping and dining areas open to the public — Universal CityWalk , Downtown Disney , and Disney Springs — will stay open .
As of Friday , there were more than 1,900 cases of the new coronavirus in the United States , according to NBC News reporting .
So far , 41 people have died .
The TODAY show and Universal Studios share the same parent company , NBCUniversal .
This story initially was published on TODAY at 5:41 p.m. ET on Thursday , March 12 , 2020 .
It has been updated .

'This is unacceptable': New York City mayor denounces coronavirus discrimination .
2020-03-12 20:04:28 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
At a media roundtable Wednesday , New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio condemned coronavirus - related discrimination against Asian communities .
De Blasio ’s denouncement comes after two separate attacks against Asian Americans in New York on March 10 .
That morning , a 23 - year - old woman told police another woman punched her in the face and made anti - Asian slurs , and the victim had to go to the hospital .
“ Right now , we 've seen particularly troubling instances of discrimination directed at Asian communities , particularly in Chinese community , ” de Blasio said .
“ This is unacceptable . ”
The New York City Police Department said that it is a “ possible biased incident ” and that it is an ongoing investigation by the Hate Crime Task Force .
Later in the evening , a 59 - year - old man said he was approached by a suspect who used anti - Asian remarks and then kicked him , causing him to fall .
The NYPD said the victim refused medical attention at the scene .
The March 10 attacks are the latest in a wave of xenophobic harassment against Asian communities across the globe following the outbreak of the coronavirus .
Anti - Asian attacks led the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus to send a letter to colleagues Feb. 26 urging them to “ help prevent hysteria , ignorant attacks and racist assaults ” against Asian Americans resulting from misinformation about the coronavirus .
While de Blasio did not directly address the March 10 incidents , he pointed out that many hate crimes go unreported , and he implored people to report hate crimes to the NYPD so they can be dealt with .
“ Any act of discrimination could very well be something that constitutes a breaking of the law of the city , which we have a very strong human rights law , ” de Blasio said .
“ So people are discriminated against in employment , in terms of their day to day lives , shopping , housing , anything , we want to know about it , we want to stop it . ”
Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said in a statement March 11 that he was “ disgusted ” to hear of the attack on the 23 - year - old woman , saying that it was apparently motivated by a “ bigoted notion ” and that he is directing the State Police Hate Crimes Task Force to help investigate .
“ To be clear : there is zero evidence that people of Asian descent bear any additional responsibility for the transmission of the coronavirus , ” Cuomo said .

Coachella, Stagecoach music festivals postponed due to coronavirus concerns .
2020-03-11 00:40:23 +00:00 .
It 's now official : The Coachella and Stagecoach festivals have been postponed due to concerns over the coronavirus outbreak .
" At the direction of the County of Riverside and local health authorities , we must sadly confirm the rescheduling of Coachella and Stagecoach due to COVID-19 concerns .
While this decision comes at a time of universal uncertainty , we take the safety and health of our guests , staff and community very seriously .
We urge everyone to follow the guidelines and protocols put forth by public health officials .
Coachella will now take place on October 9 , 10 and 11 and October 16 , 17 and 18 , 2020 .
Stagecoach will take place on October 23 , 24 and 25 , 2020 .
All purchases for the April dates will be honored for the rescheduled October dates .
Purchasers will be notified by Friday , March 13 on how to obtain a refund if they are unable to attend .
Thank you for your continued support and we look forward to seeing you in the desert this fall . "
Dominos are falling in the festival world , as the Coachella and Stagecoach postponements follow quickly on the heels of Friday afternoon 's announcement that South by Southwest is officially off for 2020 .
That was preceded by a Friday morning news conference officially confirming days of reports that Miami 's EDM - based Ultra Music Festival was being called off .
Today , Miami 's Winter Music Conference was also called off .
The Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival , which for several years has repeated the same lineup over two weekends instead of just one , was set to take place April 10 - 12 and again April 17 - 19 .
The scheduled nightly headliners were Rage Against the Machine , Travis Scott and Frank Ocean .
Stagecoach , one of the nation 's biggest annual country music festivals , was to follow on the same grounds in Indio April 24 - 26 , with Carrie Underwood , Eric Church and Thomas Rhett in the headline slots .
It 's unclear as yet which acts will perform on the rescheduled dates .
All agents had been notified of the postponement in the last 24 hours .
It 's worth noting that 2016 's Desert Trip festival , otherwise known as Oldchella , was a very successful music gathering that was held in the fall -- from October 7 to 9 and 14 to 16 -- at the same site as Coachella and Stagecoach : Indio 's Empire Polo Club ( polo is only played on the grounds from January to March ) .
Desert Trip featured the Rolling Stones , Bob Dylan , Paul McCartney , Neil Young , Roger Waters and The Who on the bill and grossed more than $ 160 million .
By moving Coachella and Stagecoach as opposed to canceling them , Goldenvoice -- and parent company AEG -- shields itself from having to trigger cancelation insurance that may or may not cover communicable diseases .
May 's Cannes Film Festival , for instance , is not insured against such a cancelation .

Coronavirus challenges $45 billion cruise industry .
2020-02-23 17:42:35 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Coronavirus concerns have pushed the $ 45 billion cruise line industry to cancel trips and reroute ships as it struggles to contain the impact from fearful travelers .
But experts say the industry will bounce back after the outbreak is contained .
“ Business is soft , people are scared to travel , ” Frank Del Rio , CEO of Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. , told investors Thursday .
He predicted the trend would continue , “ until we see the leveling off of new cases . ”
Carnival Cruise Lines , Norwegian Cruises , and Royal Caribbean Cruises all together recently announced they ’d canceled nearly 40 cruises and rerouted over 40 .
Shares are down across the three major cruise lines from 10 to 16 percent since January .
Carnival told investors if travel restrictions continue through May , it could lead to a 14 percent reduction in share price .
Royal Caribbean said additional cancellations could lead to a roughly 12 percent decrease in earnings this year .
Earlier this over 600 passengers Carnival ’s Diamond Princess were forced to remain on their ship in " chaotic conditions " after testing positive for coronavirus .
Some described their 10 - day quarantine like being held “ hostage . ”
Two passengers later died after leaving the ship .
The cruise lines have announced additional cleaning and safety measures to address the coronavirus issue .
Several cruise lines are denying boarding to passengers who have visited infected regions , and extra screenings for anyone who appears sick or may have come in contact with travelers to affected regions .
“ The industry is really erring on side of caution to reduce the risk of introducing virus on board this ship , ” Brian Salerno , spokesperson for Cruise Lines International Association trade association , said .
China is a growing market for cruise lines and currently makes up roughly 10 percent of the market , according to Salerno with the Cruise Lines International Association .
North America makes up about 50 percent of the market and Europe accounts for 25 percent , he said .
But Chinese travelers who fly to Europe then board a cruise back to the mainland make up a larger slice of customers , about 14 percent .
This slice of customers is directly impacted by cruise lines ’ travel restrictions , said Salerno .
The cruise industry has previously faced and recovered from health outbreaks before , including norovirus and chickenpox .
“ If you look at prior outbreaks what you see is kind of short - lived duration impact on booking trends in the cruise space followed by a return to normalcy over the subsequent months , ” said Sharon Zackfia , an equity analyst with William Blair .
“ The cruise industry is really resilient and I do n’t expect we ’ll be talking about this in 2022 , ” she said .

Eight Americans diagnosed with coronavirus on cruise ship off Japan .
2020-02-07 13:49:32 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Eight more Americans from a quarantined cruise ship off Japan have been confirmed to have new coronavirus , bringing the total number of U.S. citizens diagnosed on the liner to 11 , the operator said on Friday .
One of them , Rebecca Frasure from Oregon , spoke to NBC News shortly after receiving her test results and as she waited to be airlifted to a Japanese hospital .
“ Being alone in the hospital in a foreign country where people do n’t speak my language that ’s definitely a concern , ” she told NBC News by phone from her cabin on the Diamond Princess .
There are currently 12 diagnosed cases of the virus in the continental U.S. Princess Cruises announced 41 new cases of the virus on board the vessel on Friday , of which eight were Americans , bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 61 .
Most are Japanese citizens .
The 20 previous cases , including three Americans , were discovered in earlier batches of testing this week and the individuals were escorted off the ship .
The vessel is quarantined off Yokohama , south of Tokyo , and has around 3,700 passengers and crew on board .
Frasure , 35 ,
said she was worried about heading to the hospital alone , as her husband , Kent , had tested negative and had to stay on the ship .
“ They just told me that they will need to keep me in the hospital for at least three days for treatment , and then if I get better then I will come back to the ship to finish up the quarantine in my cabin , ” she said .
Frasure said she had been shocked to receive the positive test results , and did not remember coming into contact with anyone sick .
Besides , she did n’t particularly feel unwell .
The global death toll from coronavirus has risen to at least 638 , compared to 565 two days ago , and confirmed cases reach more than 31,000 on mainland China , compared to 28,000 on Wednesday .
On board the ship , the alarm was raised after a former passenger tested positive .
Passengers on the Diamond Princess said they were first told they would have to stay in their rooms on Wednesday , and that the crew had recently started bringing people out to the deck to get some fresh air and stretch their legs — prioritizing those without balconies .
Laundry , sheets and towels had not been changed , passengers said , but masks , gloves and thermometers had been distributed and passengers have been asked to regularly check their temperatures .
Meanwhile , another cruise ship , World Dream , remained quarantined in Hong Kong .
Three people who had been on board the ship during a previous voyage tested positive for the virus , the operator Dream Cruises said in a statement Thursday .
The company later added that no Americans were on board .
A third cruise operator , Holland America , said Thursday that one of its ships had been notified that it would not be permitted to call in Japanese ports .
The Seattle - based operator denied anyone had the coronavirus on the ship , and said it was looking for a new port of disembarkation .
Princess Cruises , the operator of the ship docked in Japan , said that unless there were further developments , the quarantine on the Diamond Princess should last until Feb. 19 .
On board the ship , cabin fever is beginning to set in as the days tick by .
“ We want off now and we want permission from the various countries to do so , ” said Gay Courter , 75 , who is from Crystal River , Florida .
“ The government took people out of Wuhan , China , they can take us too . "

Boeing halts shares trading after stock plunges by almost 6 percent .
2020-01-21 20:11:29 +00:00 .
Boeing stock trading was temporarily halted Tuesday after shares fell by almost 6 percent on reports that regulators plan to keep the company 's fleet of troubled 737 Max airplanes grounded until July , far longer than originally planned .
The planes have been grounded since March last year , after two crashes killed a total of 346 people .
The Federal Aviation Administration released a statement shortly afterwards , confirming the news , and trading reopened .
“ The agency is following a thorough , deliberate process to verify that all proposed modifications to the Boeing 737 Max meet the highest certification standards , ” the FAA said .
“ We have set no time frame for when the work will be completed . ”
Boeing issued its own statement , saying , " We are informing our customers and suppliers that we are currently estimating that the ungrounding of the 737 Max will begin during mid-2020 .
Returning the Max safely to service is our number one priority , and we are confident that will happen .
We acknowledge and regret the continued difficulties that the grounding of the 737 Max has presented to our customers , our regulators , our suppliers , and the flying public . "
Airline stocks were under additional pressure Tuesday after news that the mysterious coronavirus had claimed six lives and spread to Washington state .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled by almost 200 points , with travel companies , luxury goods retailers , and airlines all taking a hit as concerns mounted that travel would be affected due to passenger fears they would contract the infectious virus .
Federal health officials confirmed Tuesday that a case of coronavirus had been diagnosed in Seattle .
The patient is a male in his 30s and is currently in good condition , the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said .
He arrived in the U.S. around Jan. 15 after visiting Wuhan , China , and before airport screenings began .
Boeing announced in December that it would be suspending production of the troubled 737 Max airplanes in January .
It still has 4,900 back orders for the Max jet .
Its sole competitor , the Airbus A320 , is sold out until 2024 .
Boeing has gone from crisis to crisis in the past 18 months , and is currently in talks to secure $ 10 billion or more in funding , based on bank appetite , to shore up company finances as costs related to the Max crisis skyrocket .
The company replaced the head of its commercial airplane unit in October , and fired CEO Dennis Muilenburg last month , one week after the company announced it planned to suspend production of the Max .
A 737 Max , Lion Air Flight 610 , crashed off the coast of Indonesia on Oct. 29 , 2018 , killing 189 people .
Then on March 10 , Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 crashed en route to Kenya , killing all 157 people on board .
The company said Monday that it continued to build planes after the program was halted and that about 400 are now in storage .
Boeing said it would prioritize delivering those planes instead of focusing on more production .

Trump says he is postponing G7 summit .
2020-05-31 02:06:11 +00:00 .
President Donald Trump on Saturday announced that the Group of Seven summit of world leaders would be postponed until at least September .
“ I ’m postponing it because I do n’t feel as a G7 it probably represents what ’s going on in the world .
It ’s a very outdated group of countries , " Trump said , according to a press pool report .
He also said he 'd like to invite additional countries , including Russia , Australia , South Korea and India , to attend the summit .
Russia was ejected from what was then the G8 in 2014 as punishment for the annexation of Crimea .
The announcement comes a day after The Associated Press and other news outlets reported that German Chancellor Angela Merkel would not attend a meeting in - person amid the coronavirus pandemic .
Earlier this month , Trump tweeted that he was considering rescheduling the G7 for June at Camp David in Washington as a sign of “ normalization . ”
But on Friday , Merkel refused the invitation , citing the continued risk of the pandemic .
" The federal chancellor thanks President Trump for his invitation to the G7 summit at the end of June in Washington .
As of today , considering the overall pandemic situation , she can not agree to her personal participation , to a journey to Washington , " a German government spokesman told Politico .
G7 is the nickname for the informal group of seven large industrialized countries — Canada , France , Germany , Italy , Japan , the United Kingdom and the United States — that meet periodically to discuss global matters .
Originally scheduled for June 2020 , Trump said in March the event would be held virtually before later changing his mind and reviving the idea of an in - person event this summer .

Wisconsin reports record number of new coronavirus cases, deaths .
2020-05-28 16:18:43 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Wisconsin saw a record number of new coronavirus cases and deaths reported in a single day on Wednesday , two weeks after the state ’s Supreme Court struck down its statewide stay - at - home order .
The state reported 599 new known COVID-19 cases on Wednesday with 22 known deaths , according to Wisconsin ’s Department of Health Services , the highest recorded daily rise since the pandemic began there .
As of Wednesday , the state had more than 16,460 known cases and 539 known deaths , according to the department .
The previous record in new coronavirus cases was 528 the week prior .
Wisconsin also issued a record number of test results Wednesday , with more than 10,300 tests conducted , according to the department .
Democratic Gov. Tony Evers spoke of the importance of wearing a mask in public Wednesday in order to keep others safe from the virus .
" One of the most important things you can do to help others is to wear a mask or other face - covering in public , " he said .
" Wearing a mask should n't be a political statement .
It is n't controversial , and it 's not hard to do . "
On May 13 , Wisconsin ’s Supreme Court struck down the state ’s stay - at - home order during the pandemic as " unlawful , invalid , and unenforceable " after finding that the state 's health secretary exceeded her authority .
The order had put Evers at odds with the state 's Republic - controlled legislature .
Some local officials , including those in Milwaukee and Madison , have since instituted their own regulations .
In a 4 - 3 ruling , the court called Health Services Secretary - Designee Andrea Palm 's directive a " vast seizure of power . "
The order directed all people in the state to stay at home or at their places of residence , subject only to exceptions allowed by Palm , the ruling said .
The order , which had been set to run until May 26 , also restricted travel and business , along with threatening jail time or fines for those who do n't comply .
“ Republican legislators have convinced four justices to throw our state into chaos , ” Evers said in a statement at the time .
" We can not let today 's ruling undo all the work we have done and all the sacrifices Wisconsinites have made over these past few months , " he said in the mid - May statement .
"
I am disappointed in the decision today , but our top priority has been and will remain doing what we can and what we have to do to protect the health and safety of the people of our state . "

Justice Department drops insider trading probes of three senators .
2020-05-27 01:08:13 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
The Department of Justice has closed insider trading probes into three senators who sold off stocks after early briefings on the coronavirus
, aides told NBC News .
A spokesman for Sen. Kelly Loeffler , R - Ga. , confirmed she 'd been informed that DOJ dropped a probe into her trades , and called the allegations " politically motivated . "
“ Today ’s clear exoneration by the Department of Justice affirms what Senator Loeffler has said all along — she did nothing wrong .
This was a politically - motivated attack shamelessly promoted by the fake news media and her political opponents .
Senator Loeffler will continue to focus her full attention on delivering results for Georgians , ” said the spokesman , Stephen Lawson .
A Democratic aide said Sen. Dianne Feinstein , D - Calif. , was informed that DOJ was dropping a probe into her over stock trades made by her husband in the wake of her briefings .
A similar probe into Sen. James Inhofe , R - Okla. , was also being dropped , according to a spokesman — but another against Sen. Richard Burr , R - N.C. , was continuing .
The development was first reported by the Wall Street Journal .
Burr 's office did not respond to a request for comment .
A spokesperson for the DOJ declined comment on the Journal report .
“ As I ’ve said all along , I was n’t even at the briefing and do not make my own stock trades , ” Inhofe told The Oklahoman .
“ I did nothing wrong , and I ’m pleased the Justice Department has exonerated me . ”
Burr temporarily stepped aside as chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee earlier this month after the FBI seized his cellphone as part of its investigation into his trades .
Unlike the other senators , Burr has acknowledged directing his trades himself .
He maintained he did n't use inside information and said in March he " relied solely on public news reports to guide my decision regarding the sale of stocks on February 13 . "
Loeffler said after the trades were disclosed that she 'd been unaware of the transactions at the time they were made .
" I have no involvement in these decisions .
I do n't have conversations with them about any of this , and so this is a very third - party relationship that many people are familiar with , ” she told CNBC in March .
A Feinstein spokesman told NBC News at the time her husband 's trades were disclosed and hat she " did not sell any stock .
The transactions you 're referencing were made by her spouse .
All of Senator Feinstein 's assets are in a blind trust , as they have been since she came to the Senate .
She has no involvement in any of her husband 's financial decisions . "
Inhofe told reporters at the time that “ I do not have any involvement in my investment decisions . "
" In December 2018 , shortly after becoming chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee , I instructed my financial advisor to move me out of all stocks and into mutual funds to avoid any appearance of controversy .
My advisor has been doing so faithfully since that time and I am not aware of or consulted about any transactions , " Inhofe said .

Eighth Amazon warehouse worker dies from COVID-19 .
2020-05-21 23:57:38 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Another Amazon warehouse worker has died from COVID-19 , bringing the total known deaths to eight employees , the company said Thursday .
The female employee worked in packing at the fulfillment center outside Cleveland in North Randall , Ohio , known as CLE2 , Amazon said .
She had been with the company since November 2018 .
The employee last went to work on April 30 , the same day she was diagnosed , said Amazon spokesperson Lisa Levandowski .
The e - commerce giant learned of her positive test results on May 8 and was informed of her death by her sister - in - law on May 18 .
“ We are saddened by the loss of an associate who had worked at our site in Randall , Ohio , ” Levandowski said .
“ Her family and loved ones are in our thoughts , and we are supporting her fellow colleagues . ”
Amazon said it was providing counseling to other employees at the warehouse .
The woman ’s colleagues were notified of her positive test result verbally , according to Levandowski .
Amazon says it conducts contact tracing for every positive test , utilizing video surveillance to track employees ’ locations and proximity to each other .
Amazon said no other associates were linked to the woman .
The company has repeatedly declined to disclose to NBC News how many warehouse workers nationwide have tested positive or died from the coronavirus illness .
“ We do n’t think that number is super valuable , ” Levandowski said .
Amazon has been under pressure from current and former employees to provide safer conditions at its warehouses .
The company told NBC News it began deep cleaning of high - touch areas , like elevator buttons , door handles and handrails , in late February and early March .
Disinfectant spraying , called “ fogging , ” began three weeks ago in all warehouses , including at the North Randall location .
Masks were made available and required as of April 15 .
NBC News has confirmed that seven other Amazon warehouse workers have died after testing positive for coronavirus in Staten Island , New York ; Waukegan , Illinois ; Hawthorne , California ; Tracy , California ; Bethpage , New York ; Jeffersonville , Indiana ; and Indianapolis , Indiana .

Child deportation soars amid pandemic, but speed-up plans date to 2017 .
2020-05-20 19:02:14 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
WASHINGTON
— The Trump administration has expedited the deportation of child migrants during the coronavirus pandemic , citing public health , but documents obtained by NBC News show that as far back as 2017 , now – DHS Acting Secretary Chad Wolf sought to expedite child deportations in order to discourage Central American asylum seekers .
Recent reports from immigration lawyers , DHS officials and congressional staff have indicated a rise in the number of rapid deportations of unaccompanied migrant children .
Previously , children who arrived in the U.S. without a parent or legal guardian were given protections under anti - trafficking laws , which included the right to claim asylum and to be placed in the custody of the Department of Health and Human Services until they could be placed with a guardian .
The New York Times recently reported that more than 900 children have been deported under a new policy that sends children back to their home countries before they have had a chance to coordinate plans with a guardian at home or claim asylum in the U.S ..
Many of those children , according to the Times , were in the U.S. and living in HHS custody or with family members before the pandemic began .
DHS has said the deportations are justified under Title 42 , which allows restrictions on immigration to slow the spread of disease .
But a 2017 policy proposal by Wolf shows that the agency has long sought the ability to deport children more quickly , long before the threat of a virus gave it cover to do so .
The documents were first obtained by Sen. Jeff Merkley , D.-Ore . , and then shared with NBC News .
Wolf , who was then chief of staff to DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen , sent a collection of policy ideas to the Justice Department , which included plans to reclassify unaccompanied migrant children as accompanied once they had been placed in the care of a parent or sponsor .
The designation as an unaccompanied child “ is recognized throughout the minor ’s immigration proceeding , despite the minor ’s reunification with parents .
This affords the minors the protections under the Trafficking in Victims Protection Reauthorization Act ( TVPRA ) , which allows them to avoid expedited removal [ and ] to seek asylum , ” Wolf said in the internal policy proposal memo .
In 2019 , shortly before she was removed as secretary , Nielsen wrote a letter to Congress asking for a change in law to allow DHS to remove children more quickly .
Congress did not authorize such a move .
“ DHS seeks authority to return [ unaccompanied children ] to their families and a safe and orderly manner if they have no legal right to stay , ” Nielsen said in a March 2019 letter to Congress , as the number of children crossing the border was on the rise .
Immigration attorneys say many of the deported children do not have families or plans in place for their care when they find themselves abruptly returned by plane to their home countries .
A DHS spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment .

The number of women running Fortune 500 companies just hit a new high .
2020-05-19 19:48:18 +00:00 .
The number of women running Fortune 500 companies has hit a new record , according to this year ’s Fortune 500 list .
Currently , there are 37 women leading Fortune 500 firms — an increase from last year ’s 33 women , which , at the time , was a record high .
This new additions are the result of several leadership changes in companies that previously made the list , in which women have taken over from a male predecessor , as well as companies passing the $ 5.7 billion revenue threshold to make the list this year , reports Fortune . Of the 37 women CEOs , seven made the list for the first time .
Newcomers include former Home Depot executive Carole Tome , who will become the new CEO of UPS on June 1 ; veteran health executive Heyward Donigan who became the CEO of Rite Aid in August 2019 ; former Old Navy chief Sonia Syngal who became Gap Inc. ’s CEO in March 2020 ; Kristin C. Peck who became CEO of the animal health company Zoetis in January 2020 ; and Jennifer Johnson who took over her family ’s investment management company , Franklin Resources , from her brother in February 2020 .
Barbara R. Smith , CEO of materials company Commercial Metals , and Nazzic S. Keene , CEO of information technology company Science Applications International , made the list for the first time after bringing in a company revenue of $ 5.8 billion and $ 6.4 billion , respectively .
A few familiar names such as IBM CEO Ginni Rometty , Lockheed Martin CEO Marillyn Hewson and KeyCorp CEO Beth Mooney are no longer on the list after announcing they will be stepping down from their roles this year .
Though improvements have been made around gender diversity in the C - suite , this year ’s list is also proof that a lot more work still needs to be done .
Even with a record high of 37 female CEOs , women make up just 7.4 percent of the leaders on the Fortune 500 list .
There are also just three women of color on the list : Gap Inc. ’s Syngal , Advanced Micro Devices CEO Lisa Su and Yum China CEO Joey Wat .
Mary Winston , who was the interim CEO of Bed Bath and Beyond , was the only black woman leading a Fortune 500 company last year .
She has since been replaced by permanent CEO Mark Tritton , leaving zero black women on the list .
And Geisha Williams , who was the first and only Latina woman heading a Fortune 500 company , stepped down from her role last year ; now there are zero Latina women in charge of a Fortune 500 firm .
Lorrain Hariton , president and CEO of Catalyst , a global nonprofit that works to accelerate women into leadership positions , says this year ’s list is an “ incremental victory ” in the right direction , but acknowledges that a lot more progress still needs to be made .
She emphasizes that with this incremental victory also comes “ the sobering reality of the unprecedented economic and health crisis we face in this moment , ” in which women are being financially impacted more than men .
Hariton explains that during this pandemic , women are not only losing their jobs faster than men , but they are also losing their jobs at a time when they are trying to ” [ manage ] child care , their households and their own emotional well - being . ”
Moving forward , she says , “ with more women CEOs in the Fortune 500 , we need to be proactive to create more equitable , inclusive and fulfilling opportunities and workplaces for everyone . ”
This includes , she adds , having a post - coronavirus workplace where leaders are “ intentionally [ doubling ] down on supporting women at every level to continue to advance women in the workplace . ”

They came to worship. They went home with a deadly illness. How COVID-19 spread through an Arkansas church. .
2020-05-19 19:08:28 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Two people infected with COVID-19 spread the virus to more than 30 people during church gatherings in Arkansas in early March , before the first case was ever diagnosed in that state , according to a report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published Tuesday .
The cases illustrate how rapidly the virus can spread to others involved in faith - based organizations , and may have implications for places of worship as churches nationwide figure out how to reopen safely .
The CDC investigation focuses on an outbreak of COVID-19 at an unnamed church in rural Arkansas .
According to the report , two people with symptoms of the virus attended children 's events at the church from March 6 to 8 .
Neither of those two people , who later tested positive for COVID-19 , reported traveling outside of the area , and had no known contact with other confirmed cases .
The pastor of the church , along with his wife , developed similar symptoms a few days later , on March 10 and 11 .
But before the pastor started feeling ill on March 11 , he attended a Bible study group , unknowingly exposing dozens of people to the virus .
Of 92 people identified to have attended one of the church gatherings from March 6 to March 11 , 35 later tested positive , including the pastor and his wife .
Three people died .
Two children also tested positive , but did not get very sick .
As soon as the church discovered the infections , in - person activities were canceled and the church was closed , the report said .
But widespread transmission within the church and in the community had already occurred .
Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak
Indeed , an additional 26 people living in the community who 'd had contact with church attendees also later developed COVID-19 .
One of those people was sick enough to be hospitalized and died .
It 's possible others were infected as well , the CDC report said , but never tested .
" This outbreak highlights the potential for widespread transmission of SARS - CoV-2 , the virus that causes COVID-19 , both at group gatherings during church events and within the broader community , " the researchers wrote in the report .
It 's unclear from the report how the virus spread from person to person in these church gatherings .
Children 's events included collecting offerings by hand from adults , " resulting in brief close contact among nearly all children and attending adults , " according to the report .
Singing and buffet meals were also part of the church 's events during this time frame .
" These findings underscore the opportunity for faith - based organizations to prevent COVID-19 by following local authorities ' guidance and the U.S. Government 's Guidelines : Opening Up America Again regarding modification of activities to prevent virus transmission during the COVID-19 pandemic , " the authors wrote .
The CDC 's guidelines recommend churches consider moving services online , suspending certain traditions such as ritual washing , and finding ways to minimize hand contact between parishioners .

Kristin Cavallari gives glimpse into life with kids amid divorce from Jay Cutler .
2020-05-18 22:33:21 +00:00 .
Even with a global pandemic and her impending divorce from husband Jay Cutler , Kristin Cavallari is focusing on her kids .
During a recent Instagram Live chat with friend and celebrity stylist Dani Michelle , the 33 - year - old mother of three shared how she and her little ones have been spending their days .
To start , she revealed that she and her kids , Camden , 7 , Jaxon , 6 , and Saylor , 4 , have been staying with a friend .
( Recent court documents showed Cavallari was in a legal back - and - forth with Cutler over funds for her to purchase a new home . )
" With my kids , it 's like , ' All right , what should we do today ? '
and we 've maxed out every creative idea .
It 's nice that we can be outside a little bit more , " the reality star said , adding that she 's still running her jewelry brand , Uncommon James .
"
But it 's nice because I used to wake up at 5 a.m. every morning , work out , and then I would get my kids ready for school , take them to school and then go to the office , " she continued .
" I have n't set an alarm since all of this has been going on .
I 'm like , it 's going to be really hard for me to get back into .
I do n't know that I can go back to that 5 a.m. lifestyle . "
She added that now she 's waking up anywhere between 6:30 a.m. and 8 a.m.
Another rule Cavallari 's eased up on ?
Letting her kids sleep with her , which she does n't " normally " do , she said .
" I have been rotating my kids for the last week , " the fashion mogul explained .
"
And when Saylor sleeps with me , we literally slept until 8 o'clock the other morning .
I was like , whoa .
So it 's cute .
But those are the moments that will never be the same .
We ’ll never get those back .
So , in that sense , I ’ve been trying to really enjoy that time with my kids . ”
Like many parents , though , Cavallari has found home schooling challenging .
" The no - school thing is tough , " she told Michelle , who asked if she been teaching her kids .
" I 'm attempting to ! "
Cavallari quipped before clarifying that her daughter is too young to need home schooling .
Her boys , however , are a different story .
" Jaxon will not listen to me , ” she laughed .
“ He refuses to do work , and I 'm like , ' I ca n't fight with you over doing schoolwork .
It 's too hard . '
" The " Laguna Beach " alum also shared that her kids ' school initially sent her a plan that mapped out the days from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. " I was like , ' I ca n't do that ! '
" she exclaimed .
" My kids are young , so that 's nice , but I have flashcards with Jaxon that I do . ...
It 's nothing major .
My boys are 7 and 6 so it 's not the end of the world if they 're not sitting here doing schoolwork every day . "
She added , " Everyone 's getting a little stir - crazy because we ca n't really go anywhere . "
Cutler , 37 , and Cavallari announced in late April that they were divorcing after 10 years together .
They reached a custody agreement for their children earlier this month .
" We have nothing but love and respect for one another and are deeply grateful for the years shared , memories made , and the children we are so proud of , " Cavallari wrote in an April 26 Instagram post .
" This is just the situation of two people growing apart . "
According to court filings , the couple separated April 7 , when they returned to the U.S. from the Bahamas , where they stayed for three weeks at the beginning of the coronavirus outbreak .
They began dating in 2010 and married in 2013 .

He thought the coronavirus was 'a fake crisis.' Then he contracted it and changed his mind .
2020-05-18 17:09:15 +00:00 .
A Florida man who thought the coronavirus was " a fake crisis " has changed his mind after he and his wife contracted COVID-19 , the disease caused by the virus .
Brian Hitchens , a rideshare driver who lives in Jupiter , downplayed the seriousness of the coronavirus in Facebook posts in March and April .
" I 'm honoring what our government says to do during this epidemic
but I do not fear this virus because I know that my God is bigger than this Virus will ever be , " he wrote in a post on April 2 .
" Jesus is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords . "
In mid - April , Hitchens , 46 , began documenting his and his wife 's health on Facebook .
Download the TODAY app for the latest coverage on the coronavirus outbreak .
" Been home sick for over a week .
Both my wife and I home sick , " he wrote in a post on April 18 .
" I 've got no energy and all I want to do is sleep . "
A day later , Hitchens and his wife , Erin , were admitted to Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center , Hitchens said in a Facebook post .
Hitchens could not immediately be reached for comment Monday .
The voicemail box for a number listed for him is full .
In a lengthy post on May 12 , Hitchens said that he was once among those who thought the coronavirus " is a fake crisis " that was " blown out of proportion " and " was n't that serious . "
That changed when he started to feel sick in April and stopped working , he wrote .
Hitchens said he " had just enough energy " to drive himself and his wife to Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center on April 19 , where they both tested positive for the virus .
" They admitted us right away and we both went to ICU , " he wrote .
" I started feeling better within a few days but my wife got worse to the point where they sedated her and put her on the ventilator . "
Hitchens said he never experienced terrible aches and pains but felt weak and exhausted .
He said he felt better on May 12 , at which point he had been in the hospital for three weeks , and that he still had COVID-19 ,
the disease caused by the coronavirus .
He also said he had pneumonia in his lungs .
" As of today my wife is still sedated and on the ventilator with no signs of improving , " Hitchens wrote .
" There were a couple times were they tried to start weaning her off the ventilator but as soon as they 've done that her oxygen level dropped and they had to put her back on the ventilator full time . "
He said his wife of eight years has been sick " quite a few times " in the past and she always fought through .
This time , he said , " I have come to accept that my wife may pass away . "
Hitchens , who has been unable to see his wife since they were hospitalized , said he was holding out hope she would recover .
" This thing is nothing to be messed with please listen to the authorities and heed the advice of the experts , " he wrote .
" We do n't have to fear this and by heeding the advice does n't mean that you fear it that means you 're showing wisdom during this epidemic time . "
The May 12 post has been shared more than 500 times .
Hitchens implored people to " use wisdom . "
" Looking back I should have wore a mask in the beginning but I did n't and perhaps I 'm paying the price for it now , " he wrote .
If he passed the virus on to his wife , he said , he knows that she and God forgive him .
"
So just think about what I said and if you have to go out please use wisdom and do n't be foolish like I was so the same
so the same thing wo n't happen to you like it happened to me and my wife , " he wrote .
Hitchens wrote in a Facebook post Monday that he had one thing to say to people who have sent him nasty messages saying he deserved to die : " I AM NEGATIVE " ! "
PRAISE THE LORD ! "

Which major retail companies have filed for bankruptcy since the coronavirus pandemic hit? Here's the list. .
2020-05-15 16:00:05 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
From iconic department stores to entertainment giants , the coronavirus has seemingly spared no one in its devastation of the U.S. economy .
With bankruptcy currently hovering over household staple JCPenney , factors such as falling consumer demand , reduced entertainment spending , and stay - at - home orders mandating certain businesses stay closed continue to take their toll .
The traditional retail industry has been struggling for the past several years as consumers pivot to online shopping .
Even with the slow reopening of the economy as lockdowns beginning to lift , social distancing measures may continue for months .
That will impact store capacity for retail and restaurants .
For some businesses , these temporary changes could indicate bigger problems .
While bankruptcy does n’t inherently mean that a company will go out of business — it 's more a financial restructuring — it does spell news of changes to come .
Here ’s a list of all the companies that have filed for bankruptcy so far since the start of coronavirus .
The New York City - based gourmet foods retailer filed for bankruptcy on March 31 , one of the first businesses to show signs of trouble due to coronavirus impact .
The company was founded in 1977 and was acquired by Pace Food Retail in 2014 .
Apex Parks , which owns and operates 14 family entertainment and water parks in New Jersey , California , and Florida , filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on April 8 .
A release from the company indicated that they do not intend to close .
FoodFirst Global Holdings , the parent company of restaurant chains Bravo Cucina Italiano and Brio Tuscan Grille , filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on April 10 .
FoodFirst acquired the brands in 2018 .
True Religion , a clothing brand known for its jeans , filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on April 13 .
The company , whose trendy denim rose to popularity in the 2000s , also filed for bankruptcy in 2017 .
CMX Cinemas , a chain of movie theaters with dine - in options , filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on April 25 .
The theaters , owned by parent company Cinemex Holdings , was in the process of acquiring the Star Cinema Grill , a deal that was inked only six weeks prior .
The preppy retailer worn by celebrities and shoppers alike filed for bankruptcy on May 4 .
The company also owns Madewell , a women ’s clothing and accessory brand .
Gold ’s Gym , which owns and operates over 700 gyms in the U.S. and internationally , filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on May 4 .
The company said in a release they hope to be through the filing by Aug. 1 , “ if not sooner . ”
Luxury department store Neiman Marcus filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on May 7 .
The century - old retailer is one of several traditional department stores that could be headed for trouble .
Stage Stores , which owns and operates almost 800 locations in smaller and more rural communities , filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on May 10 .
The brands sell a variety of goods , including apparel , cosmetics , and home goods .
This list will be updated on a weekly basis .

New York area's 'patient zero' says coronavirus 'wasn't on my mind' when he got sick .
2020-05-11 12:21:54 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
When Lawrence Garbuz got sick in February , he thought he just had a cough .
But Garbuz had coronavirus , which left him in a coma and earned him the title of the New York area 's " patient zero . "
In an exclusive interview with Savannah Guthrie that aired Monday on " TODAY , " Garbuz spoke about his experience , saying the disease that almost killed him " really was n't on my mind " as he was falling ill .
Garbuz , 50 , was sick in February before the outbreak was on many American 's radar , including his own , and weeks before New York took strict measures to prevent the spread of the disease .
“ I ’m a lawyer .
I sit at a desk all day , ” he said .
“ I think at the time we were sort of focusing on individuals who had maybe traveled internationally , something that I had not done . ”
But his case , one of the first in the New York - area , sparked a community outbreak in his town , suburban New Rochelle , forcing the governor to create a " containment zone , " which shut down schools and places of worship before the rest of the state was under stay - at - home orders .
Eventually , Garbuz ’ home state of New York became the hardest hit in the U.S. , with almost 340,000 of the country ’s more than 1,300,000 cases , including more than 27,000 deaths .
“ I really have not focused on any of the media frenzy in terms of one of the first patients to get it , ” Garbuz said .
“ But I have been focused more on , as I say , getting better . ”
And the road to getting better has been a long one from Garbuz .
As his condition worsened , he eventually went to the hospital .
“ After we entered the emergency room , I have absolutely no recollection of anything that transpired , ” he said , “ until I woke up from the coma . ”
His wife , Adina Garbuz , said they originally thought he had pneumonia , but he just kept getting “ worse and worse . ”
“ Healthy , vibrant person , all of a sudden overnight gets so sick so quickly .
I know that at this point , we 're not so surprised by that .
But at that time , it was shocking , ” she said .
When she found out her husband had COVID-19 , Adina Garbuz said she was “ on the phone through the night with various departments of health finding out what to do , and sharing everywhere we went . ”
“ I did n't want anybody else to get sick , ” she explained .
Eventually , she made the decision to transfer her husband to a bigger hospital in New York City .
“ I just did n't think he was gon na make an ambulance ride , ” she said .
It was Adina Garbuz who made sure he was intubated for the ambulance ride to help him breathe .
Garbuz said he did n’t have any pre - existing conditions , and while in the hospital his only goal was “ to go home . ”
Now , he 's achieved that , back with his family and doing much better .
For Ella Garbuz , one of their children , having him home has been a blessing .
“ This is just like a miracle for all of us , ” she said .

Federal judge rules New York must hold June primary election canceled over coronavirus risks .
2020-05-06 01:07:50 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
A federal judge ordered Tuesday that New York state hold its Democratic primary in June , which was canceled over coronavirus concerns , which places Sen. Bernie Sanders , I - Vt . , and other former 2020 candidates back on the ballot .
U.S. District Judge Analisa Torres of the Southern District of New York ruled in favor of the law team representing businessman Andrew Yang , who dropped out of the Democratic primary in early February .
Yang ’s lawyers brought the lawsuit against the New York State Board of Elections late last month after the board canceled the state ’s primary , which already had been postponed two months .
Citing coronavirus concerns , the board stripped Sanders ' name from the June 23 presidential primary ballot after he dropped out — effectively canceling the primary and making former Vice President Joe Biden the winner .
“ The Court concludes that Plaintiffs and Plaintiff - Intervenors have shown a clear and substantial likelihood of success on the merits of their claim that the Democratic Commissioners ’ April 27 Resolution removing Yang , Sanders , and eight other Democratic presidential candidates from the ballot deprived them of associational rights under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution , ” Torres wrote in the conclusion of her 30 - page ruling .
Granting the preliminary injunctions now “ restores all ten presidential candidates named in the April 27 Resolution , and their respective slates of delegate candidates , to the New York Democratic presidential primary ballot , and requires that the primary election be held on June 23 , 2020 , ” according to the ruling .
Yang , Sanders , Sens . Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts , Michael Bennet of Colorado , Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota , Rep. Tusli Gabbard of Hawaii , businessman and former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg , former South Bend , Ind. Mayor Pete Buttigieg , former Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick and businessman Tom Steyer will appear on the New York presidential primary ballot .
Yang applauded the decision in a tweet on Tuesday .
“ I ’m glad that a federal judge agreed that depriving millions of New Yorkers of the right to vote was wrong , " he wrote .
" I hope that the New York Board of Elections takes from this ruling a newfound appreciation of their role in safeguarding our democracy . ”

'Devastated': A woman loses her mother, father and only brother to coronavirus .
2020-05-04 21:07:42 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Family and friends have been rallying to support and raise funds for a Miami woman as she lives through the unthinkable — her father , mother and her older brother died as a result of COVID-19 .
Violeta Tita Mayorga , the Nicaraguan family 's only survivor , is currently in isolation as she recovers from the illness .
The family lived together , along with Violeta 's eight - year - old son .
She sent him to live with his father when the adults started getting ill .
Mayorga 's cousin , Francisco Quiñonez , said she is " devastated . "
" It is not easy to lose your mom , dad and the one you had high hopes for , your brother , " he said , explaining that Mayorga thought her brother would recover from the illness .
According to family members , the son , Mario Mayorga Jr. , 42 , started feeling ill around mid - March .
He was an operations manager for Roger ’s Cleaning Service , which cleans Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach .
His parents and sister then began to show symptoms and were admitted to a hospital in Kendall , south of Miami .
The first to lose the battle against the disease was the father , Mario Mayorga Tuckler , 72 , who died April 10 , the same day that Violeta was discharged .
Nine days later , the mother , Esperanza Tapia , also 72 , died .
Both parents had been teachers in the city of Masaya , in western Nicaragua , on the edge of the country 's Masaya volcano .
The couple immigrated to the United States in the 1980s and settled in South Florida .
" They were well loved in the Nicaraguan community and among their former students , and everyone noted the love they had for each other , " Marcela Lastre , the couple 's niece , said .
The couple would have soon celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary .
A few days after the mother 's death , on April 26 , Mario Mayorga Jr. died in intensive care — the same hospital that his company cleaned .
Violeta remains in isolation but has already tested negative for the virus in her latest tests , so she hopes to at least be able to reunite soon with her child .
Friends and family started an online fundraiser to support her and her extended relatives with funeral expenses .
In the United States , over 1.1 million people have been infected with COVID-19 and at least 68,000 people have died .
Florida has more than 36,000 cases and at least 1,399 deaths have been reported .
Latinos , as well as African Americans , are among the groups hit the hardest by the pandemic .
This story was first reported for Noticias Telemundo .

Popeyes hiring out-of-work musicians to record its iconic 'Love That Chicken' jingle .
2020-05-04 15:46:26 +00:00 .
With entertainment venues shuttered across the country and thousands of gigs canceled , musicians ' livelihoods have been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic .
On Monday , one of the nation 's largest chicken chains announced a new competition that will help several singers and songwriters make some extra cash while they 're stuck at home .
Popeyes is holding a competition that will not only pay out - of - work musicians , but also provide some major exposure by letting them re - record the chain 's instantly recognizable " Love That Chicken " jingle .
" No way to make money playing music these days ?
" reads an ad for the campaign .
" We know times are tough and venues are closed .
So we have a new venue for musicians to play .
Our ads . "
The fast - food chain , famous for its viral fried chicken sandwich , is asking musicians nationwide to record a unique version of the Popeyes jingle from the safety of their homes for a chance to be featured in a Popeyes commercial .
The ads , which will air on TV and radio , will spotlight the creativity of musicians across the country , while also showcasing the chain 's signature chicken meals , of course .
To enter , musicians ( who are not members of a union ) may visit Popeyes ' website to play from the official " Love That Chicken " sheet music or , if they do n't read music , they can learn the song via a play - along video .
Entrants will then be able to submit their demo recordings on social media using the hashtag # LoveThatJingle .
Popeyes says that while its original jingle was inspired by the spirit of New Orleans jazz , musicians who perform in all styles of music and play a myriad of instruments are encouraged to apply .
Popeyes would not disclose exactly how many musicians will be chosen , or how much they are paying for the new recordings , but those selected will receive a " one - time fee for the usage of their recording .
"
After the winners are chosen , they will be contacted with specifications for how to record the best - sounding version of their jingle from home .
The melodious campaign originally started last week in Popeyes ' hometown of New Orleans , where live jazz music is known to fill the streets throughout the year .
On Thursday , the chicken chain took out an ad in The Times - Picayune with a callout to all eligible musicians , but it was so popular that they decided to open up the contest to people nationwide .
Now , with its # LoveThatJingle campaign , the popular fast - food chain will be shining a spotlight on talented performers who are currently unable to showcase their talents in traditional venues .
Demo jingles must be submitted by May 10 , and winners will be notified on or before May 17 .

Boris Johnson pays tribute to doctors who treated him for COVID-19 with new son's name .
2020-05-02 17:05:09 +00:00 .
Britain 's Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his fiancée , Carrie Symonds have announced the name of their new baby son , born Wednesday .
Their new arrival will be known as " Wilfred Lawrie Nicholas Johnson , " Symonds wrote on her Instagram page Saturday .
Symonds , 32 , an environmental activist and former official in Johnson 's ruling Conservative Party said the name Wilfred came from the prime minister 's grandfather and Lawrie from her grandfather .
Nicholas was inspired by the names of two doctors , both called Nick , who treated Johnson when he was sick in hospital with COVID-19 last month .
" I could n't be happier .
My heart is full , " Symonds wrote alongside a picture of her cradling her new son .
Wilfred Johnson was born healthy at University College Hospital in London Wednesday morning , she said , adding that the couple wanted to thank their " fantastic " maternity team .
The prime minister , 55 , recently recovered from COVID-19 after spending days in the intensive care unit of a London hospital .
He was discharged on April 12 and thanked staff with Britain 's National Health Service " for saving my life . "
Symonds , said she also had COVID-19 symptoms while pregnant but was not tested .
Johnson , returned to work this week as the United Kingdom recorded more than 27,000 deaths from COVID-19 — giving it one of the highest death tolls in Europe .
Some have criticized his government 's response to the crisis .
For years Johnson 's private life has been the subject of some speculation , fueled in part by his repeated refusal to confirm how many children he has .
He has been married twice before and fathered four children with his second wife Marina Wheeler , a prominent barrister .
The couple separated after 25 years in September 2018 and later divorced .
In 2013 , when Johnson was Mayor of London , appeal court judges ruled that the public had the right to know whether he had an extramarital affair with a woman who gave birth to his daughter .
This is his first child with Symonds , and their wedding would be the first for a sitting prime minister in some 250 years .

U.K.s Johnson names new son with tribute to doctors who treated him for COVID-19 .
2020-05-02 14:40:04 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Britain 's Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his fiancée , Carrie Symonds have announced the name of their new baby son , born Wednesday .
Their new arrival will be known as " Wilfred Lawrie Nicholas Johnson " , Symonds wrote on her Instagram page Saturday .
Symonds , 32 , an environmental activist and former official in Johnson 's ruling Conservative Party said the name Wilfred came from the Prime Minister 's grandfather and Lawrie from her grandfather .
Nicholas was inspired by the names of two doctors , both called Nick , who had treated the Johnson , when he was sick in hospital with COVID-19 last month .
" I could n't be happier .
My heart is full , " Symonds wrote alongside a picture of her cradling her new son .
Wilfred Johnson was born healthy at University College Hospital in London Wednesday morning , she said , adding that the couple wanted to thank their " fantastic " maternity team .
The Prime Minister , 55 , recently recovered from COVID-19 after spending days in the intensive care unit of a London hospital .
He was discharged on April 12 and thanked staff with Britain 's National Health Service " for saving my life . "
Symonds , said she also had COVID-19 symptoms while pregnant but was not tested .
Johnson , returned to work this week as the United Kingdom recorded more than 27,000 deaths from COVID-19 — giving it one of the highest death tolls in Europe .
Some have criticized his government 's response to the crisis .
For years Johnson 's private life has been the subject of some speculation , fueled in part by his repeated refusal to confirm how many children he has .
He has been married twice before and fathered four children with his second wife Marina Wheeler , a prominent barrister .
The couple separated after 25 years in September 2018 and later divorced .
In 2013 , when Johnson was Mayor of London , appeal court judges ruled that the public had the right to know whether he had an extramarital affair with a woman who gave birth to his daughter .
This is his first child with Symonds , and their wedding would be the first for a sitting prime minister in some 250 years .

Prison sentence for 'Hot Pockets' heiress delayed amid coronavirus .
2020-05-01 20:50:36 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Hot Pockets heiress Michelle Janavs , ensnared in the sweeping college - admissions scandal , had her prison sentence — set to begin next week — delayed due to the coronavirus outbreak .
Janavs , sentenced five months behind bars for paying a fixer to get her daughters into the University of Southern California , had been ordered to surrender on Thursday but now may remain free until at least June 30 , according to U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton .
But the judge ruled against Janavs ' bid to have her entire sentence served under house arrest .
" The COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented and continually evolving cause of concern and the Court is cognizant of the particular transmission risk in penitentiary facilities , " Gorton wrote in a ruling handed down Thursday .
However , " this judge will not forfeit his obligation to impose a sentence that is warranted by a defendant 's criminal conduct . "
Gorton left the door open for another delay if the outbreak has n't improved by this summer .
“ If the public health crisis has not abated by the time of the extended report date , the court will entertain further motions , ” the federal judge in Boston wrote .
Janavs , whose family developed the wildly popular microwaveable snack before selling their company , had pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud in the far - reaching college admissions scandal .
The Newport Beach , California , resident admitted that she pledged $ 300,000 to " Operation Varsity Blues " fixer Rick Singer for help in fraudulently boosting college qualifications of her two daughters .
Another " Varsity Blues " offender , investment executive Douglas Hodge , had been ordered to report to prison on Monday to begin nine months behind bars .
He too was denied house arrest by Gorton , but then had his sentence delayed as well .
Hodge paid $ 850,000 in bribes from 2008 until 2012 to get four of his children into USC and Georgetown University as fake athletic recruits , prosecutors said .

Coronavirus live updates: U.S. deaths top 60,000, Florida to lift stay-at-home order Monday .
2020-04-30 00:06:15 +00:00 .
New York City plans to move 1,000 homeless people out of shelters into hotels each week New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio in Brooklyn , N.Y. , on April 14 , 2020 .
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said Wednesday that 1,000 homeless individuals will move out of shelters into hotels this week , with an additional 1,000 individuals each week as needed .
“ The priority will be on folks in those larger congregate shelters that are having more trouble with this social distancing , ” de Blasio said during a press conference .
This comes after 6,000 homeless individuals have successfully been moved into hotels , which is more than one - third of New York ’s single adult homeless population , according to the NYC Department of Social Services .
Over 770 homeless individuals in the city have tested positive for COVID-19 , including 660 cases among those experiencing sheltered homelessness , according to data from DSS .
These positive cases have occurred across approximately 166 shelter locations .
IRS says it 's paid out $ 207 billion in stimulus checks The Internal Revenue Service on Wednesday said it 's already paid out $ 207 billion in coronavirus stimulus checks .
" The IRS and Treasury have executed an extraordinary task by delivering more than 130 million Economic Impact Payments , totaling more than $ 207 billion , to Americans in less than 30 days , " the agency said in a statement .
The total number of payouts since Friday is surprising because the IRS and Treasury Department said then they had sent out 88 million payments totaling about $ 158 billion since checks started going out April 11 .
About 150 million Americans are eligible for the checks .
The one - time payments were included as part of the $ 2 trillion coronavirus package Congress passed in March .
People walk down the beach on April 19 , 2020 in Jacksonville Beach , Fla.
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis unveiled a plan Wednesday to lift the state 's stay - at - home orders amid the coronavirus crisis that he called " safe , smart , and step - by - step .
" The plan will go into effect on Monday in every county except Dade , Palm Beach and Broward counties , where most of the Covid-19 cases in the state have been reported , DeSantis said .
But before DeSantis released any details , he took a swipe at the " doom and gloom " media and critics who faulted him for the state 's slow response to the unfolding crisis .
More than 6,000 long - term care facilities with COVID-19 cases , 15,385 deaths There are now at least 6,046 nursing homes and other long - term care facilities with coronavirus outbreaks , and there have been 15,385 deaths from coronavirus in those facilities , according to NBC News tallies from the states willing to provide data .
Although the federal Department of Health and Human Services announced on April 19 they it would start to track and publish data on outbreaks and deaths in nursing homes , it has not published any information to date .
NBC News has confirmed state officials from both West Virginia and Maryland will test all residents and all staff ( even if they are asymptomatic ) in nursing homes because of the severity of the outbreak Long - term care residents account for roughly a quarter of all reported COVID-19 deaths in the U.S.

NYC teacher dies from COVID-19 after she was denied tests, family says .
2020-04-30 00:01:10 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
A beloved Brooklyn schoolteacher died from complications of COVID-19 after she was initially denied coronavirus tests , her family said .
Bushwick Ascend Middle School hailed Rana " Zoe " Mungin , 30 , as a " one - of - a - kind educator " who had a " transformational impact on her students and colleagues , " according to a campus statement issued Tuesday .
She died Monday from the pandemic that has ravaged the world and brutalized New York City .
" It 's just a tough one to swallow right now , " her sister and housemate , Mia Mungin , a nurse , told NBC News on Wednesday .
" I really thought she was coming back home .
She was doing so much better . "
The family believed that Mungin had been improving in recent weeks before she took a sudden turn for the worse .
" It was so crazy .
I got to see her on Friday .
We FaceTimed , and despite everything , she looked well , " Mia Mungin said .
" But the next day we FaceTimed her , it was like a different person .
She was like a deer in headlights .
You could just tell .
" We FaceTimed on Sunday .
That 's when I broke down , " Mia Mungin continued .
" She was tired .
You know , it is only so long the body could take a beating .
" The next day she was gone . "
The veteran nurse said she 's bitter , feeling let down by the industry she has worked in for two decades .
" I just feel like the health care system failed her on so many levels , " Mia Mungin said .
" The health care system failed us , something that I stood for for 20 years . "
Zoe Mungin was a 2011 graduate of Wellesley College , where she majored in psychology .
" Rana touched the lives of so many members of our community during her time here at Wellesley , and beyond , " school President Paula Johnson said in a statement .
" As her family has shared , Rana 's battle with COVID-19 , is a painful example of the disproportionate impact COVID-19 is having on African American and LatinX families across the country .
Racial and gender disparities in healthcare are a moral and systemic failure .
We can and must do better . "
Zoe Mungin felt her first symptom , a fever , on March 12 , Mia Mungin said .
She first went to Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center in Brooklyn on March 15 and was told that she could n't have a coronavirus test , according to Mia Mungin .
Zoe Mungin 's condition worsened , and the family called 911 on March 19 .
But even after getting to Brookdale that day , she was again denied testing , according to loved ones .
"
She said to me , ' Mia , they still do n't want to test for me this virus , ' "
Mia Mungin recalled her sister saying .
" ' He keeps telling me that my lungs are clear , even though I 'm still short of breath . ' " Download the NBC News app for full coverage and alerts about the coronavirus outbreak Following the 911 trip to Brookdale on March 19 , Zoe Mungin was allowed to go home — and was then rushed back to the hospital the next day , the family said .
" They intubated her in the ambulance , " Mia Mungin said .
" They told us she was intubated and the sickest in the hospital and that we need to be prayerful . "
A Brookdale spokesman confirmed Wednesday that Zoe Mungin was treated at the facility 's intensive care unit before being transferred to other hospitals in Manhattan and New Jersey .
The spokesman declined to discuss her treatment .
Mia Mungin said she fears she 's the one who passed the virus to her sister .
" She was n't working , you understand ?
I was the only one that was getting up to go to work , " with exposure to people with the virus , Mia Mungin said .
" I believe Zoe got sick from me . "

Baltimore Orioles star Trey Mancini reveals stage 3 colon cancer diagnosis .
2020-04-29 00:44:44 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Baltimore Orioles star Trey Mancini revealed he has stage three colon cancer Tuesday , a month after he had surgery to remove a tumor .
Mancini announced his diagnosis in a personal essay titled " I Am So Lucky " for the Players ' Tribune .
The right fielder , who turned 28 in March , said doctors initially believed he had celiac disease or an ulcer until he underwent an endoscopy and a colonoscopy .
" I was still woozy from the anesthesia , but before he even said the word cancer I was thinking to myself , There 's no way that he 's about to say what I think he 's about to say , " Mancini said .
" And then he said it : They had found a malignant tumor in my colon . "
Doctors removed Mancini 's tumor on March 12 , six days after it was found , and he began chemotherapy a month later .
He said that his father had previously fought stage two colon cancer but that he thought he was too young to worry about such a diagnosis .
Mancini said he knew he was lucky for quite a few reasons , including his new contract with the Orioles in January following a breakout year in which he was one of the American League 's best hitters .
Beyond his love of the game , he credited the team 's resources and support for doctors ' being able to detect his tumor before it was too late .
He did n't have any typical symptoms of colon cancer other than feeling more lethargic than usual .
Initial blood tests showed only low iron levels .
But further testing eventually found the tumor before it could create a total blockage of his colon , Mancini said .
The treatment will take at least six months , meaning he wo n't be returning to baseball even if Major League Baseball decides to start the 2020 season amid a pandemic .
" Chemo in the age of COVID-19 is crazy , " he said .
Mancini has to take his treatment alone because of restrictions due to the coronavirus .
His girlfriend drives him to the hospital , but she can not go inside with him .
" I 'm definitely trying to follow all the protocols , not only because it 's the right thing to do , but also because I do n't want to expose myself to anything , especially before going into chemotherapy , " Mancini said .
Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politics
He acknowledged that this is a " terrible time " for everyone and said that once he is recovered , he wants to use his platform to make a difference .
" So many people have lost jobs , so many people have lost loved ones , " Mancini said .
"
After my chemo is done , and when I 'm totally cancer - free , I 've got a few different ideas of what I can do . "

Coronavirus reshapes special contest for Maryland seat in Congress .
2020-04-28 11:22:32 +00:00 .
In an unprecedented Maryland election , three polling centers will be open Tuesday in a special election between Democrat Kweisi Mfume and Republican Kimberly Klacik in a congressional race dramatically reshaped by the coronavirus pandemic .
Officials have been urging the electorate to vote by mail for weeks , after roughly 484,000 ballots were mailed earlier this month to registered voters in the state ’s 7th Congressional District to choose a candidate to finish the term of the late Rep. Elijah Cummings .
He died in October .
After thousands of Wisconsin voters waited hours in line outside crowded polling stations for that state ’s recent primary , Maryland sent ballots to eligible voters weeks in advance to encourage as many mail - in votes as possible — in a test of how future elections might safely be held during the pandemic .
The election initially was going to be an all mail - in vote , but limited in - person voting was allowed after concerns were raised about people who ca n’t cast ballots by mail , including the disabled and homeless .
More than 85,000 votes already have been mailed in .
Mfume , a 71 - year - old Democrat who held the seat for five terms from 1987 to 1996 , is trying to regain the office he held before Cummings .
Baltimore resident Kyle Baylor said he planned to drop off his ballot with a vote for Mfume at the post office .
Baylor cited Mfume ’s experience .
" He has a more direct approach to politics and policies and how he handles things , and from what I 've seen , he seems to care about the issues of Baltimore city , which is something that we desperately need , " Baylor said .
Democrats outnumber Republicans by more than 4 - 1 in the majority - black district , which includes a significant portion of Baltimore , as well as parts of Baltimore and Howard counties .
Mfume supports stronger gun - control measures , such as reauthorizing a federal assault weapons ban that expired in 2005 .
He also is focusing on the root causes of crime , like the inability of young adults to find jobs .
He has made health care a priority , particularly lower prescription drug costs .
" I believe very much in improving and strengthening Obamacare , " Mfume said in a recent interview .
Her social media posts last year showing trash and blight in Baltimore prompted a call for her to appear on the network ’s program " Fox & Friends . "
President Donald Trump went on to describe the 7th Congressional District in tweets last year as a " disgusting , rat and rodent infested mess " where " no human being would want to live , " at a time when Cummings was the powerful House Oversight Committee chairman , leading multiple investigations of the president at the time .
Klacik , 38 , has campaigned on economic development .
She wants to help struggling parts of Baltimore through a federal program known as opportunity zones .
Supported by Trump , the program focuses on increasing private investment in distressed communities with tax incentives for people who invest in real estate projects and operate businesses in designated low - income communities .
" To me , the only way you ’re going to lift people out of poverty is with employment , and I think that ’s what really made me want to run for the seat , because I could see the need for career opportunities , not just jobs but actual careers , " Klacik said in a recent interview .
The winner will serve the remainder of Cummings ' term into January .
The winner also will run as an incumbent in the state ’s June 2 primary to be his or her party ’s nominee for a full term .
For the upcoming primary , voters also will be strongly urged to vote by mail .

Back in U.S., Guatemalan reunites with family after deportation under coronavirus 'emergency' .
2020-04-23 17:52:47 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
He was wearing a mask while he waited to see her .
She arrived in a car .
They then held hands , gave each other a hug and started to cry .
" I am very happy .
It had been almost a month since I saw my wife , and I am going to see my children in a little while , " said Gilmer Barrios , a Guatemalan immigrant who was reunited with his wife and their two small children this week .
Barrios , 28 , was arrested on March 23 by U.S. Customs and Border Protection in Southern California and was deported four days later to Tijuana , Mexico , without having a deportation order and without first seeing an immigration judge .
He spent 21 days in Mexico without being authorized to be there , until the United States reinstated him .
Noticias Telemundo first reported Barrios ' case , alerting the Guatemalan consulates , who then negotiated Barrios ' re - entry into the United States .
His irregular expulsion occurred in the midst of the coronavirus emergency .
Border Patrol was granted new emergency powers during the pandemic , or at least until May 20 .
They now have the authority to immediately remove migrants who just crossed the border .
In March , agents used their new authority to remove 6,306 people , according to official data .
There are estimates that the total number of removals is more than 10,000 , including in the first days of April .
But Barrios was not a migrant who had crossed the border ; he has lived in the United States for over a decade .
Authorities arrested him while he was driving and he spent three days in custody .
During that time , he asked to see an immigration judge .
Wendi Lee , a CBP spokesperson , told Noticias Telemundo by email that Barrios was expelled after being detained at a checkpoint on I-15 in California .
“ It was later discovered that he had pending immigration processes in the United States .
The Border Patrol of the San Diego sector quickly took action with the assistance of the Guatemalan Consul General to allow Mr. Barrios re - entry to the United States , ” she said .
Barrios told Noticias Telemundo that his return was less traumatic than his removal .
“ Several agents and the head of the Border Patrol in San Diego were waiting for me with my name .
They asked me my name and they took many photos of me , " he said .
After his return to the United States , he spent six days detained at a Border Patrol station in Chula Vista , California .
He was then released on parole to continue working on his pending immigration case .
“ They did n't insult me ​​and they did n't hit me like they did the first time .
I was one of the people they treated the best .
I do n't know why , but they treated me well , ” Barrios said in a video that the communication agency Tzunu Strategies shared with Noticias Telemundo .
Barrios ' wife , Kimberly Barrios - Hernández , said that the behavior of their two toddlers changed during their father 's 28 - day absence .
“ They were very sad , very serious .
They clung much more to me , " she said .
" If I just went to another room , they already felt that I was going to leave them , that they were not going to see me anymore . "
Investigative reporter Damià Bonmatí first reported the story for Noticias Telemundo .

Mom who gave birth in coma from coronavirus holds her baby for 1st time .
2020-04-22 00:00:53 +00:00 .
Angela Primachenko has no memory of giving birth to her daughter , but she will always remember the day she finally got to hold her for the first time .
Primachenko , 27 ,
gave birth to a daughter on April 1 while she was in a medically induced coma and hooked up to a ventilator , fighting for her life against the coronavirus .
The respiratory therapist from Vancouver , Washington , called herself " a miracle walking " on TODAY last week after she survived and was released from the hospital .
Download the TODAY app for the latest coverage on the coronavirus outbreak
She had to have two straight tests that showed she is negative for COVID-19 before doctors would let her see her daughter , Ava , who was in the neonatal intensive care unit at Legacy Salmon Creek Medical Center .
That day finally came on April 16 when she held Ava in her arms .
" Crying right now ! ! !
IM COVA FREE ! ! !
And holding my baby girl in my hands ! "
she wrote on Instagram .
Primachenko wore a mask as she cradled her second child .
" Such a testimony to be able to hold my little
Ava ( the reason I ’m wearing a mask is because everybody has to wear a mask now when visiting the NICU ) , '' she wrote on Instagram .
" Ava is doing amazing and gaining weight everyday like a champ !
Another week or so
and we will be able to take her HOME ! ! "
Her husband , David , and her 11 - month - old daughter , Emily , did not test positive for COVID-19 , so David had been able to hold their daughter in the NICU before Angela was able to see her .
Primachenko shared a video on Instagram of the sweet moment when Emily got to meet her little sister for the first time on Sunday .
Primachenko was 33 weeks pregnant with a fever and other symptoms when she was tested for COVID-19 on March 24 .
Eight days later , she was on a ventilator in a medically induced coma .
Eventually , she pulled through and was taken off the ventilator on April 6 .
She woke up to the stunning realization that she was no longer pregnant .
" After all the medication and everything I just woke up and all of a sudden I did n't have my belly any more , '' she said on TODAY .
" It was just extremely mind - blowing . "
Primachenko is hoping her story can provide a measure of hope during the pandemic .
" The last few weeks have been filled with so much unexpected change in my life ... and I feel like I can write a novel ..
but for tonight I ’ll just write that life is good , and let ’s find the good in everyday , " she wrote on Instagram .

'Animal Crossing' is getting a free update: Here's what to expect .
2020-04-21 20:50:04 +00:00 .
Since it 's release in March 2020 , the newest " Animal Crossing " game for the Nintendo Switch , " New Horizons , " has captured the attention of quarantined kids and parents everywhere .
After all , interacting with anthropromorphic animals , building an island village and completing tasks like fishing , fossil - hunting and gardening in the game is an effective way to pass the time while social distancing to stop the spread of COVID-19 .
Now , a month after the popular game hit stores , Nintendo has announced a free update , which will roll out new events and experiences within the game starting on April 23 .
A YouTube video outlining the upcoming changes walks viewers through the pending new additions to the game .
They include a sloth named Leif who will visit each island in the game selling plants that were previously not available , and a special " wedding season " activity within the game in the month of June .
Players will be able to take wedding photos of the characters Reese and Cyrus , two married alpacas who have appeared in previous " Animal Crossing " games .
To grab the update for your family 's Nintendo Switch , be sure to close out of the software and restart it on April 23 .
The Switch system will check for available updates before opening the software again and should automatically download the new content .
According to a post on the Nintendo website , here 's what players can expect once the updates , available in the game for a limited time , begin later this week .
Leif ’s Garden Shop : The sloth character , Leif , will appear in the " plaza " area of each island to sell new varieties of flowers , plants and shrubs .
( The azalea bushes look super adorable ! )
Jolly Redd ’s Treasure Trawler :
Redd , a fox character who has appeared in other versions of " Animal Crossing , " will randomly appear on islands by boat .
The tricky animal will be on board selling art , and players will need to figure out whether his wares are real or fake .
Redd 's appearance also will lead to an expansion of the museum on the island , allowing players to donate artwork for display .
Nature Day
: This event will run from April 23 through May 4 .
Special earth - friendly challenges , such as planting trees and watering flowers , will be given by the character Tom Nook through his " Nook Miles " phone app .
May Day
Tour : Friday , May 1 is May Day , and during the first week of May ( May 1 to 7 ) players will receive a one - time - use plane ticket to be used at the airport on their island .
The " May Day Ticket " will give players a tour of an island they 've never seen before .
Nintendo says a " special visitor who looks familiar " will be there waiting .
International Museum Day : Monday , May 18 is International Museum Day , and to celebrate , players will receive a special stamp card from the owl character , Blathers , who runs the museum on their island .
After visiting different exhibits and collecting stamps , they 'll receive a special reward in the game .
This event runs from May 18 to 31 .
Wedding Season : To kick off wedding season , married alpacas Reese and Cyrus will be on dog character Harvey 's island from June 1 through 30 .
The pair will be requesting anniversary photos , and players will need to create a wedding chapel scene for the photo shoot .
They will be rewarded with wedding - themed items for their work .

Texas councilman and his husband die days apart from coronavirus .
2020-04-20 21:25:56 +00:00 .
A Texas councilman and his husband died two days apart after contracting COVID-19 .
Live Oak Councilman Anthony Brooks , an employee at the San Antonio Military Medical Center and a military veteran , and Phillip Tsai - Brooks , a local business owner , died early last week at Methodist Hospital Metropolitan in San Antonio .
“ There are two family members we will miss , and will never get back , ” Robert Tsai , one of Phillip ’s brothers , said , according to NBC affiliate WOAI - TV .
“ It ’s not worth going out and socializing and risking that chance of getting it . ” Robert Tsai said the deaths of Brooks , 42 , and Tsai - Brooks , 52 , should serve as a warning that the coronavirus can be deadly , even to those who are otherwise healthy and relatively young .
Anthony Tsai , another brother of Phillip 's , said he was “ in disbelief ” over the passing of the couple and echoed Robert ’s plea for social distancing in a post shared on Facebook .
“ We urge EVERYONE to stay home !
Stop the spread !
You do n't want to go through what we are going through .
Rest in peace Tony and Phillip , ” he wrote .
The couple leaves behind Tsai - Brooks ' mother , who lived with them and has also tested positive for COVID-19 , according to WOAI - TV .
Alfred Tsai , another brother , told the station that their mother , who is quarantined in the home she had shared with her son and son - in - law , is now forced to grieve alone .
“ It ’s very hard , ” Alfred Tsai , who lives in California , said of his mother ’s grief .
“ We had to arrange for my other brothers that live in San Antonio to stand outside the house while we tell her the news .
That ’s the heartbreaking side .
We ca n’t go in .
My brothers ca n’t go in and comfort her .
She ’s standing in the doorway crying . ”
His brothers said Phillip Tsai - Brooks went to the emergency room late last month after experiencing shortness of breath and was subsequently put on a ventilator .
His husband was at home at the time after being diagnosed with a low - grade pneumonia , the brothers said .
Initially , no one in the family suspected the couple had contracted the coronavirus , but by the time the tests came back positive , the two men were getting increasingly ill .
In his final post on Facebook , shared on March 26 , Philip Tsai - Brooks confirmed he had tested positive and was experiencing low oxygen levels , a low heart rate , shortness of breath , vomiting and a high fever .
He said he expected to be in the ER for just “ a couple of days ” and would then begin to self - quarantine at home .
He died in the hospital a few weeks later , on April 12 , Easter Sunday , two days before his husband passed away .
“ Tony Brooks and Phillip Tsai loved each other so much , and they left this world together , ” Alfred Tsai told The San Antonio Express - News .
“ It ’s a love story that ended too soon in this world , but in heaven , it will last for eternity . ”
Live Oak Mayor Mary Dennis mourned the loss of the two men in a public Facebook post shared late last week .
“ We are forever grateful for both Anthony ’s and Phillip ’s service to our Live Oak Community and to our country , ” she said .
“ May God Bless their family and all who were blessed to call both men ‘ friend . ’ ” Since the coronavirus outbreak became public late last year , it has claimed more than 35,000 lives in the United States alone and over 168,000 globally .

Ex-FDA chief says U.S. likely won't have broad-based coronavirus testing until September .
2020-04-20 12:20:41 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON — Former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said Monday that the U.S. likely wo n’t have broad - based testing for the coronavirus in place until September .
“ We 're not going to be there .
We 're not going to be there in May , we 're not going to be there in June , hopefully we 'll be there by September , ” Gottlieb said in an interview on NBC ’s “ Today ” show .
Gottlieb said some states that have n’t been hit hard by the coronavirus are ready to begin reopening slowly in the beginning of May. As other states reopen , he said that the U.S. wo n’t have the optimal amount of testing and contact tracing in place to “ to do the work of tracking down everyone who is sick , or who might have been in contact with people who [ are ] sick . ”
“ It 's a risk , there 's no question it 's a risk , " he said .
" I mean , we wo n't have the testing that we want until September , I think , in terms of kind of broad coverage .
You 're still going to see high positivity rates heading into May. ”
Still , it ’s just not realistic to wait until the fall to reopen , he said .
“ If we wait until we have sort of the optimal framework for testing , we 'll be waiting until the fall and that 's just not going to be possible from an economic , social or public health standpoint , ” he said .
Gottlieb ’s comments come as some states take steps to reopen their economies this week following a three - phase plan from the White House recommending that governors should do so in stages .
Public health experts , meanwhile , told NBC News that testing for COVID-19 should be at least doubled or tripled from current levels to allow for even a partial reopening of the country ’s economy .
An average of about a million tests are being conducted each week in the U.S. , according to the COVID Tracking Project .
That surveillance only covers diagnostic testing , which determines whether a person tests positive for the illness at the time of testing .
Antibody tests are currently in development that would determine whether a person was previously infected with the virus .
Officials have been saying that those tests could be key to reopening the economy .
At the same time , officials also warn that it ’s unclear whether a person who already contracted the virus is immune from getting it again .

Parent in college admission scam leaving prison early because of coronavirus .
2020-04-17 19:50:31 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
BOSTON — A parent sentenced to six months in prison for participating in the college admissions bribery scheme is getting to go home early because of the coronavirus pandemic , a federal judge has ruled .
Toby Macfarlane , a former real estate executive from Del Mar , California , will be released to home confinement after his lawyers argued the conditions behind bars put him at serious risk of contracting the virus .
He will be released after he completes a 14 - day quarantine in prison on April 21 , U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton said this week .
Macfarlane was sentenced in November after admitting to paying $ 450,000 to get his children into the University of Southern California as fake athletic recruits .
Macfarlane was supposed to be released from prison on June 30 .
His lawyer said his client was told earlier this month that he would be transferred to a halfway house but first had to undergo a 14 - day quarantine .
Macfarlane was then taken to higher - security facility , where his lawyers say he has been confined 24 hours a day and had no change of clothes .
The judge said Macfarlane 's two - weeks in confinement is the equivalent of spending two months in the lower - security camp where he was serving .
Therefore , the judge cut his sentence to time served and ordered him to remain in home confinement with electronic monitoring until June 30 .
An email was sent to Macfarlane 's lawyer on Friday .
Macfarlane is among nearly two dozen parents who have pleaded guilty in the case .
Others include “ Desperate Housewives ” actress Felicity Huffman , who was sentenced to two weeks behind bars for paying $ 15,000 to have someone rig her daughter 's entrance exam .
Parents still fighting the case include “ Full House ” actress Lori Loughlin and her fashion designer husband Mossimo Giannulli , who are charged with paying $ 500,000 to get their two daughters into USC .

Defense chief indicates it's possible Navy captain fired after raising coronavirus concerns could be reinstated .
2020-04-16 12:53:30 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
U.S. Secretary of Defense Mark Esper indicated Thursday that it 's possible Navy Capt .
Brett Crozier , who was relieved of his command of the USS Theodore Roosevelt after raising concerns about a coronavirus outbreak , could be reinstated .
An investigation into the incident was completed last week , and the Navy is now reviewing its findings , Esper said on TODAY Thursday .
The report " will come to me at some point in time , " Esper said .
He added that he could n't comment further before then , but was keeping an " open mind . "
" Let the investigation within Navy conclude itself , and we ’ll take things as we can and make very reasoned opinions and judgments as this progresses , " Esper said .
Crozier lost his command on April 2 after sending a strongly worded letter to Navy leadership detailing his concerns about the spread of the virus on the aircraft carrier .
The letter was leaked to the media and generated national headlines .
One sailor who was aboard the ship later died of coronavirus - related complications , and Esper said Thursday that 600 or so crew members have been found to be infected with the virus .
Crozier was relieved of his command by then - acting Navy Secretary Thomas Modly , who ultimately resigned in the aftermath of the incident .
Modly at first said Crozier was removed from his post , while able to keep his rank and remain in the Navy , because he sent his letter over " non - secure unclassified email " to a " broad array of people " rather than up the chain of command .
But later , while speaking in Guam to the crew of the USS Theodore Roosevelt , Modly said Crozier was guilty of a “ betrayal of trust . "
“ If he did n’t think , in my opinion , that this information was n’t going to get out into the public , in this day and information age that we live in , then he was either , A , too naive or too stupid to be a commanding officer of a ship like this , ” Modly continued .
“ The alternative is that he did this on purpose . ”
Modly first stood by his remarks but later , after President Donald Trump voiced support for Crozier , Modly released a new statement apologizing for his remarks .
On April 6 , Modly offered his resignation and Esper accepted it , selecting Under Secretary of the Army James McPherson as acting Navy secretary , according to officials .
The Roosevelt has been docked in Guam , a small island in the Pacific Ocean and an unincorporated territory of the United States , since March 27 for a scheduled port visit for resupply and crew rest .
The Navy last week said that 92 percent of the ship 's roughly 4,800 crew members have been tested for COVID-19 , with more than 3,600 of them getting back negative results .

U.K.'s Boris Johnson leaves hospital after personal coronavirus battle .
2020-04-14 00:04:22 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson left the London hospital where he was being treated for COVID-19 and returned home Sunday , Downing Street confirmed .
A spokesperson said Johnson would continue his recovery at Chequers , the prime minister 's country residence in the county of Buckinghamshire , north of London .
" On the advice of his medical team , the PM will not be immediately returning to work , " the spokesperson said , adding that Johnson wanted to thank London 's St. Thomas Hospital , where he was treated , " for the brilliant care he has received . "
Johnson , 55 , was admitted to St. Thomas ' Hospital on April 5 after having experienced " persistent " symptoms of COVID-19 , the disease associated with the coronavirus .
He spent three nights in the intensive care unit , where he received oxygen treatment but did not need to be put on a ventilator .
The sudden deterioration of his health jolted some Britons and sparked concern for his well - being and the country 's leadership during the pandemic .
Johnson left intensive care , returning to a regular ward , on Thursday and was said to have been in " good spirits , " sitting up in bed and later taking short walks .
The prime minister also thanked the National Health Service for the " brilliant care " he had received .
Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab has been standing in for Johnson while he was being treated , and the prime minister will likely face pressure to confirm when lockdown measures in Britain — in place since March 23 — may be eased .
Download the NBC News app for full coverage and alerts about the coronavirus outbreak Johnson was last seen in public clapping for National Health Service workers in Downing Street before his admission to the hospital as part of a weekly clap - for - carers campaign .
His pregnant partner , Carrie Symonds , 32 , has previously said on Twitter that she had recovered from corona - like symptoms despite not having been tested .
Johnson announced his positive test results March 27 in a video online , saying that his symptoms were mild and that he was self - isolating .
The prime minister had previously insisted that the United Kingdom should continue to follow social distancing measures and the advice of public health officials .
Deaths from the coronavirus have continued to mount in Britain .
As of Sunday , 9,875 deaths in U.K. hospitals have been recorded among more than 78,000 confirmed cases .

WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange fathered two children in embassy, partner says .
2020-04-14 00:04:22 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
LONDON — WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange fathered two children while he was living in London 's Ecuadorian Embassy , their mother said Sunday as she pleaded with British authorities to release him from prison over fears for his health amid the coronavirus epidemic .
Stella Morris , who was a member of Assange 's legal team , publicly revealed that Assange was a parent for the first time in a video interview WikiLeaks released on its social media channels .
Assange , 48 , is being kept in London 's Belmarsh high - security prison while he fights extradition to the U.S. , where he faces 18 counts , including conspiring to hack government computers and violating an espionage law .
He was dragged out of the embassy and arrested by British police almost exactly a year ago after his asylum was revoked .
Morris said in the video that she first met Assange in 2011 but that their relationship started four years later , when he was living in the embassy .
They deliberately chose to have children to '' break down the walls around him " and " imagine a life beyond prison , " she added .
She said she was worried that Assange 's life " might be coming to an end " as he remains in confinement amid the coronavirus outbreak .
In a five - page witness statement , which has been seen by NBC News , Morris said she was going public in support of a bail application for Assange .
Assange 's attorney Jennifer Robinson told NBC News in a statement Sunday that Morris had not made the decision to tell her story lightly , having fiercely protected her family 's privacy for many years .
" She wanted to speak in support of Julian 's bail application given the grave risk to his health in prison during the COVID pandemic and the judge refused her anonymity , " Robinson said .
Assange 's extradition hearing is scheduled to resume next month .
Last month , he was denied bail after his attorneys said he should be released because he was highly vulnerable to the coronavirus .
Morris said she has gone to great lengths to shelter her children " from the climate that surrounds " Assange but felt that she needed to speak up because their lives are " on the brink " and she feared Assange could die in prison .
Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politics
In her statement , signed March 24 , Morris said she had recently learned that Assange is in isolation " for effectively 23 out of each 24 hours and perhaps longer , " adding that she can not visit him in prison because of the coronavirus epidemic .
She said she has sensed " an increasing fear and panic " in her phone conversations with Assange about the coronavirus situation at the prison .
" I have feared with strong reason for a long time that I will lose Julian to suicide if there is no way in which he can stop his extradition to the U.S. , " Morris wrote .
" I now fear I may lose him for different reasons and sooner to the virus , " she added .
CORRECTION ( April 12 , 2020 , 10:30 p.m. ET ): A photo caption on an earlier version of this article misstated when Julian Assange was photographed arriving at Westminster Magistrates Court in London .
The photo was taken in April 2019 , not last month .

Texas gov wants to 'slowly' reopen private business, Trump says that's the president's decision .
2020-04-13 21:08:15 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott plans to sign an executive order later this week to reopen parts of his state 's coronavirus - ravaged economy but President Trump says the decision is his to make .
Before Abbott made his announcement on Monday , Trump said on Twitter that the authority to “ open up the states ” rests with him and the federal government , not with the governors .
Trump added , however , that " the Administration and I are working closely with the Governors , and this will continue .
A decision by me , in conjunction with the Governors and input from others , will be made shortly ! "
During a press conference where he announced $ 50 million in loans to small businesses suffering under the pandemic , Abbott did not directly address the president 's tweets .
But Abbott insisted he spoke with both Vice President Mike Pence and Dr. Deborah Birx , the White House coronavirus response coordinator , about the need to " safely reopen the state for doing business . "
” This is not going to be a rush - the - gates , everybody - is - able - to - suddenly - reopen - all - at - once ” situation , " Abbott said .
“ Our ability to open businesses in Texas will be tied to our ability to contain the spread of the coronavirus … .We want to expand those that are able to open . ”
The Constitution provide the states – - not the federal government -- with the “ police power ” to require businesses to close during a public health crisis .
The president does not have the authority to direct governors , mayors , or other local officials to lift their emergency orders .
Asked how much guidance he ’s getting from Washington , Abbott said this is “ something where the White House and White House team has been communicating with governors for weeks now . ”
The goal , Abbott said , is to “ slowly , strategically , smartly and safely ” reopen private businesses .
“ Both the president and vice - president were talking strategies , ” the governor said .
But it ’s not a one - size fits all states strategy , Abbott said .
“ What may work in Nebraska may work different for New York etcetera , ” he said .
So far 286 deaths have been reported in Texas and 1,176 people remain hospitalized , Abbott said Monday .
Of the 133,000 who have been tested , 13,827 tested positive .
Abbott said those numbers offer “ glimmers of hope with a bunch of red flags attached . ”
“ The number of deaths reported yesterday was a three - day low , ” Abbott added .
“ Those are exactly the numbers we need to see to show that we are bending the curve in the state of Texas . ”
The governor spoke out a day after he extended the state ’s disaster declaration , which went into effect March 13 and allows Texas to do things like tap the Strategic National Stockpile for medical supplies and go after price - gougers , for another 30 days .
But Abbott has not extended his stay - at - home order , which expires April 30 .
Abbott has faced criticism for being slow to respond to the coronavirus crisis , although it was Texas Lt . Gov. Dan Patrick 's suggestion that senior citizens would be willing to die for the U.S. to " get back to work " that made headlines .

One year waiting: Transgender man who wants to enlist cites coronavirus urgency .
2020-04-12 12:08:04 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Sunday marks one year since President Donald Trump barred transgender people from serving in the military .
Ryan Karnoski is challenging the ban in court to fight for the opportunity as a transgender man to enlist .
Karnoski told NBC News that the coronavirus pandemic makes the effort even more important .
" It is frustrating that a year has gone by since this new iteration of the transgender ban on military service , especially right now as we 're in this public health emergency , " Karnoski said .
" ( The pandemic ) is an important reminder to me to be doing everything that I can to be the best future behavioral health services officer than I can be , regardless of whether or not I 'm trans . "
Under then - President Barack Obama , the Pentagon lifted the transgender military ban on June 30 , 2016 , allowing openly transgender individuals to serve .
About a year later , Trump announced a reinstatement of the ban in a series of tweets , citing " tremendous medical costs and disruption " as the reason for the change in policy .
After legal skirmishes , the ban was officially put into place on April 12 , 2019 , restricting openly transgender members from enlisting and requiring active members who come out as transgender to discharge .
Joe Biden , the apparent Democratic presidential nominee ,
has vowed to overturn the ban if elected , making 2020 a high - stakes year for the LGBTQ community .
Karnoski , 25 , a social worker and currently working toward his doctorate in social welfare studies at the University of California - Berkeley , lives with his wife in the San Francisco Bay Area .
His said his goal is to become a behavioral health service officer , a commissioned officer in the military who provides mental health services .
Karnoski is a plaintiff in one of five lawsuits seeking to overturn the ban .
While the litigation continues , he said he continues to prepare for the day he believes is coming when he will be able to enlist .
He said the mobilization of the U.S. military in the coronavirus outbreak showcases the importance of service in the armed forces .
" I do n't think it 's about me as an individual at all , I 'm a piece of this larger battle , " Karnoski said .
Karnoski also said his experience as a transgender person helps him to empathize with those in minority groups , which are disproportionately affected by the pandemic as well as other health problems .
" I really see being trans as something that augments all of those other things to help me serve patients in the best way that I could , " Karnoski says .
Responding to what he says are common misconceptions about transgender people seeking to join the military , Karnoski noted that many people may not understand the community 's diverse backgrounds and reasons for enlisting .
" I 'm not joining the military so that I can get ( transgender ) surgeries or for medical care or even so that my education would be paid for , " Karnoski says .
" I want ( people ) to think of what it means that prospective medical service corps officers have been turned away , " he added , " and are being excluded from military service because of this ban , at a time when the country needs them most . "
Kara Ingelhart , an attorney with Lambda Legal and counsel to Karnoski v. Trump , said : " I think it 's clear that nobody 's asking for any special treatment here .
Just equal access . "

Nevada man charged with stealing boxes of surgical masks from VA center .
2020-04-10 00:34:55 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
A Reno , Nevada , man is accused of stealing around 200 surgical masks from a Veterans Affairs medical center last month , prosecutors said .
Peter Lucas , 35 , of Reno stole at least four boxes of masks — each containing 50 masks — from the Ioannis A. Lougaris VA Medical Center from March 19 to March 23 , the U.S. Attorney 's Office for the District of Nevada said in a statement .
He is charged with one count of theft of health care property , which carries a maximum penalty of one year in prison and a $ 100,000 fine .
Nicholas A. Trutanich , the U.S. attorney for Nevada , said in a statement that military veterans served on the front lines and now health care workers are doing the same in the fight against the coronavirus epidemic .
" We will not allow the theft of personal protective equipment to go undeterred , endangering the safety of doctors , nurses and other health professionals protecting our communities , " Trutanich said .
Lucas was not a VA employee but was a veteran who was a " compensated enrollee " in a vocational rehabilitation program there , representatives from the U.S. attorney 's office and the VA Sierra Nevada Health Care System said Thursday .
Prosecutors described the cart that the masks were taken from as being under his care .
According to a criminal complaint , Lucas was seen on surveillance video taking the masks and admitted the theft to a VA police detective .
He initially said he took the masks for a friend who also works in the medical field but then said he took them to give to the homeless , officials said .
An emailed request for comment to a federal public defender who records show was appointed to represent Lucas was not returned Wednesday evening after business hours .
Lucas appeared in court Wednesday via video conference and was released on his own recognizance , according to federal court records .
A video status conference is scheduled for April 17 .

Bored baby photographer now taking portraits of 'newborn' food deliveries .
2020-04-09 17:09:12 +00:00 .
As the coronavirus crisis continues to force more nonessential workers into their homes under shelter - in - place orders , many have had to temporarily stop operating their businesses .
This has led to a lot of boredom and frustration among small businesses owners , but one photographer has found a clever and delicious way to pass the time while staying safe at home .
Ute - Christin Cowan , a photographer based in Milford , Connecticut , normally stages sweet photo shoots of expectant mothers , newborns , kids and their families .
Since she can no longer interact with those outside of her home , Cowan is now taking adorable photos of food bundled up in blankets .
“ We always love to eat out , but these days it is hard for us because my newborn - family business has to be closed due to the executive order , so no money is coming in , ” Cowan told TODAY Food .
“ I wanted to still support our local food businesses because I want them to still be there when this is all over . "
So , Cowan decided that she 'd support them by doing what she does best : taking pictures .
Cowan started ordering different food items from her favorite local places and decided to dress them up in some of the blankets and decor typically reserved for her intimate newborn shoots .
“ I called 13 local places and ordered one of their signature items on the menu , ” said Cowan .
“ Some delivered and some had curbside pickup , so we ( Cowan 's friend Kylie ) split the orders into two and grabbed the items that were n't delivered . "
Cowan added that her friend dropped off the food outside of her home .
Cowan then took all of items into her home studio , unwrapped them and lined them up .
“ I tried to get fun ideas for each of the items .
I knew I wanted the hotdog swaddled up to give ' pigs in a blanket ' a new meaning ! "
she said .
“ The chips had to go in a bowl because that is how you typically eat them .
The grilled cheese gave me the hardest time , but then I was like the grilled cheese is already awesome on its own , so why mess with that .
So , I just added a crown . "
The other scenes came together as she played around with the various props in her studio .
Cowan said she hopes the images not only make people laugh , but will also get potential customers excited about continuing to support local food businesses in Milford and its surrounding towns .
“ It 's been such a fun project and , of course , the best part was eating all those things after I took their picture , ” said Cowan .
Before the pandemic hit , Cowan said her weekly bookings varied .
However , during the week she was forced to close , she had 12 newborn shoots scheduled and an additional 14 " milestone sessions " ( maternity shoots , cake smashes , etc . ) on the books .
“ Right now , we are supposed to be closed through April 22 , so I have n't canceled anything after that , but I am sure it is coming , " Cowan said .
" I am sad to miss out on capturing those special moments for my clients , but hopefully , once this is all over , we can capture new memories , even if the kids are a bit older by then . "
Right now , the photographer is not making any money .
“ Along with many of my photographer friends , we are hoping to be able to qualify for unemployment money and maybe some grant money provided by the SBA ( Small Business Association ) , " she added .
"
I am not willing to take out a loan during this time , so for right now I am living off our savings . "

Husband of grandma who mistakenly invited teen to Thanksgiving dies of coronavirus .
2020-04-09 13:24:37 +00:00 .
The story of Wanda Dench and Jamal Hinton , the grandmother and teen who launched a Thanksgiving tradition and an enduring family friendship following a text mix - up , now has a sad update .
Hinton took to Twitter Wednesday night to share the news that Dench ’s husband , Lonnie , died of coronavirus earlier this week .
“ As some of you may have already found out tonight Lonnie did not make it ... he passed away Sunday morning , ” Hinton wrote .
The news of Lonnie Dench ’s passing comes a week after Hinton informed his followers that both Wanda and Lonnie , of Mesa , Arizona , were recently diagnosed with coronavirus .
At the time , he tweeted , “ Lonnie is currently in the hospital fighting both COVID and Pneumonia please send words of love and encouragement their way . ”
Download the TODAY app for the latest coverage on the coronavirus outbreak .
In his tweet Wednesday , Hinton said , “ Wanda told me all the love and support he was receiving put a huge smile on his face so I thank every single one of you guys for that ! ”
As for Wanda Dench , Hinton added a brief update to say that she “ is not sick . ”
Hinton and the Dench family captured the public 's attention in 2016 when Wanda texted the then-17 - year - old saying , " Thanksgiving is at my house on November 24th at 3PM . "
When Hinton , who lived in Phoenix , asked who was messaging him , Dench responded , " Your grandma .
"
The pair exchanged selfies and realized that they did n't know each other .
" You not my grandma .
Can I still get a plate tho ? "
Hinton asked , prompting Dench to invite him over .
The mistake started its own Thanksgiving tradition — Hinton and the Dench family have celebrated the holiday together every year since .
Hinton has said that he and the family are true friends .
In May 2019 , he shared a selfie of himself , Lonnie and Wanda , and his girlfriend , Mikaela , on Instagram , with a caption saying the photo was " for everyone who thinks it 's just for the cameras and social media , " he added , " Blessed to have such wonderful people in our lives . "

Pink gets emotional detailing her and her son’s ‘terrifying’ coronavirus battles .
2020-04-09 13:09:27 +00:00 .
Pink said Jameson , who has now gone two days without a fever , got sick first , developing high body temperatures March 14 , three days after the family started their quarantine .
He also had stomach pains , diarrhea , chest pains , a headache and a sore throat , as well as a fever that reached 103 degrees .
Download the TODAY app for the latest coverage on the coronavirus outbreak .
Husband Cary Hart and their daughter , Willow , 8 , did not get ill .
“ It was terrifying at one point , ” she said .
“ Then I got sick , maybe March 16 .
In hindsight , it all makes sense , but when it ’s happening , it ’s such a weird experience that you just do n’t put together until after the fact or until days go by . ”
The “ So What ” singer had a wide range of symptoms , including fatigue , chills and nausea , although she did n’t have a fever .
“ I never had what they tell you to look for , ” she said .
An asthmatic , Pink said she needed a nebulizer to help her breathe after she woke up struggling once in the middle of the night , the first time she ’s required the device in about 30 years .
She said she needed an inhaler because she “ could n’t function without it . "
She added : " And that ’s when I started to get really scared . ”
Pink , who said she took a test that came back positive for COVID-19 , became emotional when recalling how things got very real for her when Jameson threw up , dealt with chest pains and had trouble breathing .
" That ’s the point where you are just kind of like , ' OK , are we going to the hospital ?
Like , what are we doing right now ? '
Because this is the scariest thing I 've ever , ever been through in my whole life , " an emotional Pink said .
She said they both slowly started to feel better .
“ It really is just a roller coaster , ” she noted while discussing how her sore throat would hit different sides each day .
The singer also said people have every right to be bothered by the fact that she managed to obtain a test .
“ I would say two things to that , ” she said .
“ I would say you should be angry that I can get a test and you ca n’t .
But being angry at me is not going to help anything , it ’s not going to solve the issue of the fact that you ca n’t get your hands on a test .
You should be angry about that .
And we should work together to try and change that .
“ And No . 2 , tell me anybody with a sick 3 - year - old that if they could get their hands on a test would n’t take it .
And if they say that , I ’m calling bull---- . ”
While the coronavirus has spread and affected so many people , Pink said this moment in history gives all of us a chance to lend a helping hand , even in seemingly small ways .
“ A huge point in all this is that every single person in the world right now gets to be a superhero just by staying home , just by washing their hands , by buying their elderly neighbors groceries if they should n’t be at the store , calling a loved one and making them laugh , donating masks , saying a prayer for a health care worker , ” she said .
“ Every single person is vulnerable and will be impacted by this virus , and should n’t we figure out a way to get together and make it better for each other instead of fight each other ? ”
The Grammy winner has also donated $ 1 million to coronavirus relief efforts , half of which she gave to the Philadelphia hospital where her mother worked for 18 years .
“ We ’re all trying to figure out ways to help , and there ’s a lot more that needs to be done , ” she said .

Another 6.6 million Americans lost their job last week .
2020-04-09 12:37:53 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Another wave of 6.6 million American workers filed first - time unemployment claims for the week ending April 4 , bringing the cumulative total to an astonishing 16 million over the past three weeks .
For the week ending March 21 , 3.3 million people filed new unemployment claims , easily shattering the previous record set in 1982 of 695,000 .
Last week , that astounding figure doubled , as 6.6 million people filed claims for the week ending March 28 .
Thursday 's figure was at the high end of analyst estimates , which ranged from 4.5 million to 7 million .
“ So far , jobless claims look to me like the only limitation on the number of applications has been the states ’ ability to process those claims , ” said Darrell Cronk , chief investment officer of Wells Fargo Wealth and Investment Management .
The cumulative toll of the last three weeks comes as last week ’s Labor Department release showed that the economy shed 701,000 jobs in March — a figure far more negative than anticipated , although economists said it only captured a fraction of the carnage in the labor market that largely took place in the second half of the month .
Economists say the percentage of people out of work has soared since then .
“ It ’s fair to say we ’re now into the double digits , ” said Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody ’s Analytics .
How long this all could last remains an open question .
In an interview with Savannah Guthrie on the “ TODAY ” show on Wednesday , White House coronavirus response coordinator Dr. Deborah Birx said officials were evaluating whether or not to extend its recommendation that people continue social distancing beyond the current guideline of April 30 .
“ I think we ’ve got a ways to go , or several weeks of this , as states catch up and as those claims continue to come in , ” Cronk said .
While the first wave of job losses hit hardest in consumer - facing sectors such as leisure , hospitality and retail , the continued weekly losses in the millions indicated that the pain was spreading across the economy , Zandi said .
“ Now it ’s broadening out — manufacturing , construction , of course the energy sector , ” he said , along with pockets of healthcare , wholesale , professional and personal services .
Zandi predicted that the unemployment rate will climb as high as 15 percent by later this spring , a remarkable free fall for a job market at half - century lows .
“ People are so fixated on the labor market and the impairment of the labor market because it does drive what we expect for GDP contraction , ” Cronk said .
Cronk estimated that second - quarter domestic GDP will contract 22 percent on a quarter - to - quarter basis , adding that he anticipates the beginning signs of a recovery by the third quarter .
“ It still looks like minus-3 percent for the whole year , but it ’s going to be a wild ride , ” he said .

About all those sirens in New York City .
2020-04-09 00:02:42 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Since the beginning of the coronavirus outbreak , residents of hard - hit New York City have been talking about ambulance sirens and how the wailing never seems to stop .
They 're not imagining things — but the reality is even grimmer than some may have guessed .
A huge number of those ambulances are responding to fatal or near - fatal heart attacks suffered by New Yorkers whose true health issue may be COVID-19 , the disease associated with the coronavirus .
Emergency Medical Services , the part of the fire department that runs the city 's paramedic response , is responding to three or four times its average daily number of cardiac calls , with each call almost twice as likely to involve a death .
According to the Fire Department of New York , or FDNY , it means more patients are calling 911 closer to death , and many more of them are dying despite the best efforts of EMTs and paramedics before they ever reach a hospital .
" The dramatic increase of cardiac arrest calls and deaths from cardiac arrest calls demonstrates the impact suspected or confirmed COVID-19 patients are having on 911 and what EMS members are having to respond to every day , " said a senior fire official .
NBC News was provided with raw numbers by FDNY data analysts who have been comparing the number of cardiac arrest calls this year to those last year .
The difference is stark .
To EMS , a cardiac call is a 911 call in which a patient is dead from cardiac arrest or very close to it .
"
Death on a call " means the person was found with obvious signs of death when the ambulance arrived , like rigor mortis , or could n't be resuscitated after the paramedics arrived .
From March 20 to April 5 , 2019 , cardiac calls averaged 69 a day in New York City , with an average of 27 deaths — 39 percent of the calls .
For the same period this year , cardiac calls averaged 195 a day , with an average of 129 deaths , meaning 66 percent of those calls involved a death .
The difference has become more pronounced as the disease has spread .
From March 30 to April 5 , 2019 , there were an average of 69 calls a day for cardiac patients and 26 deaths , meaning 38 percent of the calls .
For March 30 to April 5 , 2020 — the week ending Sunday — cardiac calls averaged 284 a day , with 200 deaths a day .
Seventy - two percent of the calls ended in death .
The numbers for Sunday were the highest yet .
Out of 322 cardiac calls , 241 , or almost 75 percent , ended in death .
Capt .
Jing Kong , a 16 - year EMS veteran , said via the official FDNY Instagram account , " I know crews that go from cardiac arrest to cardiac arrest all day . "
Download the NBC News app for full coverage and alerts about the coronavirus outbreak
According to the fire department , many of this year 's cardiac calls also involve notations that the patient is suffering or has suffered fever and cough , but the precise percentage is unknown .
Sunday is the most recent day for which the department provided data .

Key Trump task force must work remotely after positive COVID-19 test .
2020-04-08 00:04:40 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
A critical White House unit that is getting , shipping and distributing goods to fight the spread of the coronavirus has been ordered to vacate its war room and begin working remotely after a " partner " of the group tested positive for COVID-19 , according to an email the Federal Emergency Management Agency sent to staff members late Monday .
" Until further notice , all personnel in the Supply Chain Resilience task force " on a particular floor of one of FEMA 's buildings " and the FEMA Conference Center are required to telework , " according to an email obtained by NBC News and confirmed by a FEMA official .
The message was sent to FEMA headquarters staff at 11:17 p.m. ET Monday .
Watch an NBC News special report , " Coronavirus Pandemic , ” tonight at 10 ET on NBC , MSNBC and NBC News NOW .
The " Conference Center " is a war room set up in the FEMA complex in Washington where Navy Rear Adm. John Polowczyk 's supply chain unit , a sub - task force within Vice President Mike Pence 's larger task force that has gotten particular attention from presidential son - in - law Jared Kushner , works to find and allocate personal protective equipment and other materials to combat the spread of the coronavirus .
Polowczyk and members of his unit were listed as recipients of the email .
It was not immediately clear what effect the new teleworking situation would have on the work of the task force , which has been highly visible thanks to Polowczyk 's appearances at daily White House briefings .
It has also been highly controversial .
One reason is the involvement of Kushner , who is simultaneously deeply engaged in President Donald Trump 's re - election campaign .
The task force has also drawn criticism for circumventing federal procedures and structures in ways that critics say have created delays , inefficiencies and cost increases in acquiring goods for the coronavirus fight .
Before Monday night 's email , the task force members were working together in the conference center war room rather than from separate locations .
A FEMA spokesperson told NBC News that after conducting " contact tracing " in recent days , FEMA concluded that " at no time " did the person who tested positive " or any other known to have contact with them , come within six feet of any other Task Force principal for a prolonged period of time . "
In addition , the spokesperson said that " all areas visited by Task Force members were disinfected prior to their visits " and that " FEMA will facilitate cleaning to ensure that the potentially affected workspace meets federal health and safety standards . "
Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak The closure of two locations within the FEMA complex indicates that the " partner " who tested positive — partner is a term used for someone who normally does not work for the agency — was in both places , according to the FEMA official , who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of a lack of authority to speak publicly .
The supply chain group is " not the first task force " to get a stay - at - home order , this person said , adding : " We 've had numerous people test positive . ...
Sometimes they 're telling us , sometimes they 're not . "

Coronavirus outbreak delayed his liver transplant. Then doctors found a solution. .
2020-04-07 17:43:27 +00:00 .
Get breaking news alerts and special reports .
The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings .
Zach Branson , a Colorado man whose lifesaving transplant was put on hold last month because of the coronavirus pandemic , has received a new liver , donated by his uncle .
Doctors at UCHealth University of Colorado Hospital in Denver previously canceled the surgery — along with all other organ transplants from living donors — amid concerns that such operations would leave patients and donors vulnerable to the coronavirus .
But the hospital reversed course last week after developing the capability to test for the coronavirus in UCHealth ’s lab and get results in under four hours .
All potential living donor transplant patients are being reviewed on a case - by - case basis , examining risks to the donor and recipient , before an appropriate plan of action is determined , ” Dan Weaver , a hospital spokesman , said in an email .
Both Branson , 33 , and his uncle , Troy , 45 , tested negative for the virus Monday morning , giving doctors the green light .
Within hours , transplant surgeons had removed a portion of Troy ’s healthy liver and implanted it in his nephew , who was born with a rare disease that caused bile to back up in his body , slowly devastating his liver .
“ Zach is doing great ! ”
his sister , Ashley , wrote in a text message Tuesday morning .
“ Surgeon said his new liver is working great . ”
Doctors had told Branson early last month that , without the transplant surgery , he might have 30 to 45 days to live .
Then , on March 13 , he received word that the hospital was postponing the operation , scheduled for March 25 , citing concerns about the coronavirus .
In the days afterward , Branson made arrangements for home hospice care — unsure whether he would need it .
“ Whatever is meant to be is going to be , ” he said at the time .
“ That ’s the way I ’m trying to approach this . ”
The coronavirus pandemic has led hospitals across the United States to cancel or postpone most elective surgeries , seriously disrupting the lives of many awaiting new organs , transplant experts said .
Doctors in some parts of the country say an inability to quickly test potential donors for the coronavirus has led them to decline viable organs , forcing some ailing patients to wait longer .
To avert the spread of the virus among vulnerable patients who must take immunosuppressive drugs to prevent rejection of their new organs , doctors have canceled most routine follow - up visits for transplant recipients .
And in anticipation of a surge of coronavirus patients requiring beds in intensive care units , some hospitals are now performing transplant operations only for patients who are at the most dire risk of death .
That may mean delaying kidney transplants for patients who can get by on dialysis , or holding off on heart transplants for those surviving on mechanical heart pumps .
Prior to his surgery Monday , Branson said he knew he was fortunate to get another chance .
On Tuesday morning , he texted his sister from his hospital bed , where he was recovering .
“ They keep telling me I ’m the most alert and active liver recipient that they ’ve seen , ” he wrote .
“ I chalk it all up to the extended love and support from all of you . ”

Trump, Biden trade barbs over possible virtual Democratic convention .
2020-04-06 16:58:06 +00:00 .
President Donald Trump and Democratic presidential front - runner Joe Biden traded shots Monday over the possibility that Democrats could hold a virtual convention this summer due to the coronavirus pandemic .
“ Joe Biden wanted the date for the Democrat National Convention moved to a later time period .
Now he wants a ‘ Virtual ’ Convention , one where he does n’t have to show up .
Gee , I wonder why ? ”
Trump tweeted Monday afternoon .
The president also criticized Biden for a phone call the former vice president had said he wanted to hold with Trump about the administration ’s response to the pandemic .
“ Also , what ever happened to that phone call he told the Fake News he wanted to make to me , ” Trump tweeted .
“ Mr. President , I hope we can gather in Milwaukee , but that is going to depend on you stepping up and doing what needs to be done to handle this pandemic , ” he tweeted .
" I have laid out how you can do that . ”
On the topic of the phone call , two Biden campaign aides told NBC News on Monday that they have not heard from the White House since Trump and Biden both acknowledged they would be willing to discuss the pandemic over the phone .
The Biden campaign will be reaching out to the White House later Monday to push for a call to be set up , the aides said .
The exchange between Trump and Biden came one day after Biden said he felt the Democrats might have to have " a virtual convention " later this summer amid the coronavirus outbreak .
" Well , we 're going to have to do a convention , may have to do a virtual convention , " Biden told ABC 's " This Week " days after the Democratic Party postponed the event until mid - August .
" I think we should be thinking about that right now .
The idea of holding the convention is going to be necessary , but we may not be able to put 10- , 20- , 30,000 people in one place .
That 's very possible .
Again , let 's see where it is . "
On Thursday , the Democratic National Convention Committee announced the four - day Milwaukee convention was being postponed from the week of July 13 until the week of August 17 .
That decision came after Biden called for the convention to at least be delayed until August .
Meanwhile , the four - day Republican National Convention is set to begin on August 24 in Charlotte , N.C. , just one week after the Democratic convention .
Last month , Trump told Fox News ' Sean Hannity there was " no way " he 's canceling the convention , and Republicans have signaled in recent days that they plan to go ahead with the convention as planned .

Is the Easter Bunny an essential worker? These politicians say yes .
2020-04-06 16:41:28 +00:00 .
The novel coronavirus crisis is continuing to affect countries around the world , leading to spiking levels of unemployment .
In many places , only essential workers are allowed to do their jobs outside the home .
But the Easter holidays are approaching , and some kids are worried .
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern put their minds at ease .
" You ’ll be pleased to know that we do consider both the tooth fairy and the Easter Bunny to be essential workers , ” she said on Monday .
“ But as you can imagine , at this time they ’re going to be potentially quite busy at home with their family as well and their own bunnies . ”
" I say to the children of New Zealand , if the Easter Bunny does n't make it to your household , we have to understand that it 's a bit difficult at the moment for the bunny to perhaps get everywhere , " she added .
New Zealand has been under lockdown since March 25 .
The strict measures instructed all residents to remain at home unless they were doing " essential work " like buying food , picking up medicine or seeking healthcare .
The country has 1,106 confirmed cases of the new coronavirus , and one confirmed death .
Download the TODAY app for the latest coverage on the coronavirus outbreak .
Ardern went on to suggest that households create egg hunts for children in their neighborhoods by placing pictures of eggs in their windows .
Later in the day , Ardern shared a coloring page for an Easter egg on Instagram , asking people to " take part in the Big New Zealand Easter Egg Hunt and make this Easter extra special " by coloring in the template and hanging it in their windows .
The Easter Bunny will be reporting for duty on Easter Sunday elsewhere , as well .
Mark McGowan , a politician in Western Australia , signed a " Special Eggs - emption " for the Easter Bunny after a 9 - year - old girl wrote him a letter concerned that the bunny would n't visit her home .
On April 2 , Rhode Island governor Gina Raimondo said that " The Easter Bunny is an essential worker and can not get coronavirus " during a press briefing designed to answer questions from children .
Easter Sunday 2020 will be celebrated on April 12 .
President Donald J. Trump initially expressed interest in having " the country opened up and raring to go by Easter , " but has since extended social distancing guidelines through April 30 .

