He Kissed His Mother Goodbye. Then He Learned She Had Coronavirus. .
2020-04-05 09:08:45 +00:00 .
Samuel Roy Quinn spent five hours with his mother on Friday , finally allowed to say goodbye as her condition deteriorated in a nursing home south of Houston .
He held her hand and hugged her .
He removed his face mask several times to kiss her on the forehead .
When he eventually left the nursing home , The Resort at Texas City , an employee ran after Mr. Quinn to tell him — for the first time — that his mother had tested positive for the coronavirus , he said .
It turned out that Mr. Quinn ’s mother , Peggy Smith , was one of 83 residents and employees at the 135 - bed facility who tested positive for the virus , according to local health officials .
Some residents are still waiting for results .
Mr. Quinn said his 87 - year - old mother , who had Alzheimer ’s disease , died on Saturday morning .
“ I would have not stayed there that long if I knew she had coronavirus , ” Mr. Quinn , a fence builder , said from his home in the nearby town of San Leon , where he is now grieving in self - quarantine .
Health officials in Texas are racing to place new restrictions on some nursing homes after 150 residents and employees of two facilities alone fell ill with the coronavirus .
In addition to the Texas City facility , the virus also sickened 67 of the 84 residents at a San Antonio nursing home , killing one .
Dr. Philip Keiser , the top health official in Galveston County , where Mr. Quinn ’s mother fell ill , planned to prohibit staff members from working at multiple nursing homes if they work at a facility where a resident has tested positive .
The order would also require nursing homes to alert family members if their loved one has been confirmed to have the virus .
Image Samuel Roy Quinn , with his mother , Peggy Smith , 87 , who died on Saturday .
Credit ...
Samuel Quinn Nursing home residents are among the most vulnerable hosts for the coronavirus , as evidenced by the horror at a nursing home near Seattle where 37 people linked to the facility have died .
Mr. Quinn said he had asked the nursing staff to take his mother ’s temperature on Friday while he was there and that she had not had a fever .
That made him feel relieved , even though Ms. Smith was having trouble breathing , which Mr. Quinn knew was a symptom .
Moments after Mr. Quinn left the facility , though , a man rushed out and stopped him 10 feet from his truck to tell him that his mother ’s coronavirus test had come back positive , Mr. Quinn said .
The facility 's staff had not warned him that his mother may have the virus , Mr. Quinn said , adding that it was even more frustrating because the nursing home had not let him or his family visit until it appeared she was near her death .
“ We were n’t able to see her in final days , but she gets it anyway , ” Mr. Quinn said .
“ And then they let me go in there without telling me . ”
A woman who answered the phone at the facility on Saturday said the nursing home did not immediately have a comment .
Both the San Antonio and Texas City nursing homes have been cited by state inspectors in the past for health violations .
Among the problems found at The Resort at Texas City was a failure , in 2017 , to put an infection control program in place for several residents .
The facility corrected the violations a month later , according to state records .
Elsewhere in Texas , at least 50 residents and 25 staff members have tested positive for the virus at the Denton State Supported Living Center , a large facility for people with intellectual or developmental disabilities north of the Dallas - Fort Worth metro area , according to Denton County health officials .
Of the 6,112 people in Texas who have tested positive for the virus , at least 109 have died , as of Saturday afternoon .

What’s on TV Sunday: ‘World on Fire’ and ‘Our Country’ .
2020-04-05 05:03:02 +00:00 .
What ’s on TV MASTERPIECE : WORLD ON FIRE 9 p.m. on PBS ( check local listings ) .
If you have the appetite for an epic war drama during these tough times , give this new series a try .
It centers on several people in five countries navigating life during the first year of World War II .
Helen Hunt plays an American journalist ; Jonah Hauer - King is a British interpreter working in Poland and Sean Bean ( “ Game of Thrones ” ) takes on the role of a pacifist bus driver .
ACM PRESENTS : OUR COUNTRY 8 p.m. on CBS .
Last month the Academy of Country Music postponed its annual awards show , planned for April 5 , because of the coronavirus outbreak .
To fill that gap and keep fans entertained , the academy has put together this two - hour special .
A - list artists , including Kelsea Ballerini , Dierks Bentley and Brandi Carlile , will hold conversations and perform acoustic versions of their hits straight from their homes .
The special will also feature tribute performances in honor of Kenny Rogers , who died on March 20 .
ATLANTA ’S MISSING AND MURDERED : THE LOST CHILDREN 8 p.m. on HBO ; stream on HBO platforms .
From 1979 to 1981 , some 30 black children and young adults in Atlanta were abducted and murdered .
In 1982 , Wayne Williams was convicted of killing two adults and sentenced to two life terms .
He was a suspect in the killings of some children but was never charged , and most of the cases were closed shortly after .
Yet many of the victims ’ families doubted Williams ’s involvement and demanded the investigations continue .
That chapter of history was largely untouched until the mayor of Atlanta , Keisha Lance Bottoms , ordered the authorities to reopen the cold cases last year .
This new limited documentary series chronicles the cases from Day 1 in 1979 and features interviews with the victims ’ families , who argue that officials moved on from the killings because of racial biases and political pressure .
THE WALKING DEAD 9 p.m. on AMC .
AMC recently announced that post production on the 10th season finale of this zombie thriller series , originally slated for April 12 , could not be completed before the show ’s crew was sent home in response to the coronavirus outbreak .
So this penultimate episode will be the last until the finale airs later this year .
Last week ’s episode revealed that Beta ( Ryan Hurst ) was a famous country singer named Half Moon before turning into a mad killer , something fans had inklings of for some time .
Now , Beta has an army of walkers behind him and is out to get the survivors .
What ’s Streaming ZOMBIELAND ( 2009 ) Stream on Amazon and Hulu ; rent on Google Play , Vudu or YouTube .
For a more comedic take on a zombie - run post - apocalyptic world , stream this horror comedy about four strangers ( Emma Stone , Woody Harrelson , Jesse Eisenberg and Abigail Breslin ) who take a road trip to a California amusement park that is , briefly , free of the undead .

He Kissed His Mother Goodbye. Then He Learned She Had Coronavirus. .
2020-04-04 22:24:41 +00:00 .
Samuel Roy Quinn spent five hours with his mother on Friday , finally allowed to say goodbye as her condition deteriorated in a nursing home south of Houston .
He held her hand and hugged her .
He removed his face mask several times to kiss her on the forehead .
When he eventually left the nursing home , The Resort at Texas City , an employee ran after Mr. Quinn to tell him — for the first time — that his mother had tested positive for the coronavirus , he said .
It turned out that Mr. Quinn ’s mother , Peggy Smith , was one of 83 residents and employees at the 135 - bed facility who tested positive for the virus , according to local health officials .
Some residents are sill waiting for results .
Mr. Quinn said his 87 - year - old mother , who had Alzheimer ’s disease , died on Saturday morning .
“ I would have not stayed there that long if I knew she had coronavirus , ” Mr. Quinn , a fence builder , said from his home in the nearby town of San Leon , where he is now grieving in self - quarantine .
Health officials in Texas are racing to place new restrictions on some nursing homes after 150 residents and employees of two facilities alone fell ill with the coronavirus .
In addition to the Texas City facility , the virus also sickened 67 of 84 residents at a San Antonio nursing home , killing one .
Dr. Philip Keiser , the top health official in Galveston County , where Mr. Quinn ’s mother fell ill , planned to prohibit staff members from working at multiple nursing homes if they work at a facility where a resident has tested positive .
The order would also require nursing homes to alert family members if their loved one has been confirmed to have the virus .
Image Samuel Roy Quinn , with his mother , Peggy Smith , 87 , who died on Saturday .
Credit ...
Samuel Quinn Nursing home residents are among the most vulnerable hosts for the coronavirus , as evidenced by the horror at a nursing home near Seattle , where 37 people linked to the facility have died .
Mr. Quinn said he had asked the nursing staff to take his mother ’s temperature on Friday while he was there and that she had not had a fever .
That made him feel relieved , even though Ms. Smith was having trouble breathing , which Mr. Quinn knew was a symptom .
Moments after Mr. Quinn left the facility , though , a man rushed out and stopped him 10 feet from his truck to tell him that his mother ’s coronavirus test had come back positive , Mr. Quinn said .
The facility 's staff had not warned him that his mother may have the virus , Mr. Quinn said , adding that it was even more frustrating because the nursing home had not let him or his family visit until it appeared she was near her death .
“ We were n’t able to see her in final days , but she gets it anyway , ” Mr. Quinn said .
“ And then they let me go in there without telling me . ”
A woman who answered the phone at the facility on Saturday said the nursing home did not immediately have a comment .
Both the San Antonio and Texas City nursing homes have been cited by state inspectors in the past for health violations .
Among the problems found at The Resort at Texas City was a failure , in 2017 , to put an infection control program in place for several residents .
The facility corrected the violations a month later , according to state records .
Elsewhere in Texas , at least 50 residents and 25 staff members have tested positive for the virus at the Denton State Supported Living Center , a large facility for people with intellectual or developmental disabilities north of the Dallas - Fort Worth metro area , according to Denton County health officials .
Of the 6,112 people in Texas who have tested positive for the virus , at least 109 have died , as of Saturday afternoon .

The Rise of Virtual Races .
2020-04-04 12:04:08 +00:00 .
“ Pre - Covid virtual runs tended to market themselves on cool swag for a specific , one - time distance , ” she said .
“ Post - Covid , I ’m seeing a lot more longer - term challenges or programs that give people something to do over a longer period of time . ”
She cites a 19 - day quarantine virtual challenge and a challenge to run 50 or 100 miles by April 30 as creative examples of new events .
Jason Hershman never put on a race before but decided to launch a virtual run / walk to benefit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ’s Coronavirus Emergency Response Fund .
On May 1 , participants pledge to run or walk for one hour and , if they have social media , share their experience online .
The cost is $ 20 .
“ During this social distance period , I still have been able to get my daily runs in , which has been nice considering it is spring and I am able to go while the sun is out , ” said Hershman , who had been scheduled to run the Boston Marathon later this month ( it ’s been moved to September ) .
After returning from one such run to yet “ more awful news , ” he said , he looked to see if there were any virtual events to raise money for coronavirus relief .
When he could n’t find one , he created one .
I ’ve seen a lot of these events coming online in the last few weeks , and there ’s just about something for everyone .
Matt Chittim of the Rambling Runner , for example , started a virtual run series that began last weekend with a 5 K on March 27 to 29 .
The virtual race builds to a 10k this weekend , a half marathon April 17 to 19 , and a full marathon May 15 to 17 .
Healthy Kids Running is starting a spring race series , a five week program , on April 17 for kids .
If you read this in time , you can still jump into the Personal Peak Quarantine Backyard Ultra , which starts today at 9 a.m. Eastern time .
Participants have one hour to run a 4.167 - mile loop — in their neighborhood , on a treadmill , or wherever they are .
Then , at the top of the next hour , you repeat the loop again .
And the following hour , again .
And again .
Last man or woman standing wins .
I ’ve run a race like this in the past ( in Canada , with other people ) .
It starts out easy , then becomes agony .
It ’s fun .

Ken Shimura, Comedian Whose Sketches Delighted Japan, Dies at 70 .
2020-04-03 03:06:14 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
TOKYO — Ken Shimura could make people laugh just by tweaking a traditional dance , mangling an English lesson or acting like a shogun fool .
Mr. Shimura , a beloved comedian in Japan , died on Sunday at a hospital in Tokyo , the Izawa Office , which represented him , said .
He was 70 .
His slapstick humor , physical comedy and naïve persona made him a household name in Japan for nearly five decades .
Generations of children grew up watching his comedy skits and dance routines .
And before there was “ America ’s Funniest Home Videos , ” Mr. Shimura introduced the concept of broadcasting footage contributed by viewers on the variety show “ Kato - Chan Ken - Chan Gokigen TV , ” which aired for six years on Saturday nights on TBS , one of Japan ’s main television networks .
Mr. Shimura started feeling sick on March 17 and developed a fever and extreme fatigue two days later .
He was hospitalized on March 20 and tested positive for the coronavirus three days later .
He had recently been cast as the lead in a forthcoming film to be directed by the well - known director Yoji Yamada .
Mr. Shimura had also been invited to be a torch runner in the Olympic relay , which was canceled after the Tokyo Summer Olympics was delayed for a year because of the coronavirus pandemic .
Ken Shimura was born Yasunori Shimura on Feb. 20 , 1950 , in Higashimurayama , a city in the western Tokyo metropolitan region , to Kenji and Kazuko Shimura .
His father was a schoolteacher and celebrated judo athlete .
Mr. Shimura joined a popular music band , the Drifters , as a roadie in 1974 .
As the group branched into comedy , Mr. Shimura was recruited as a member and performed regularly with the group in its television variety show .
He created characters including Baka Tonosama ( stupid lord ) and Henna Ojisan ( weird uncle ) .
One of Mr. Shimura ’s most famous and enduring acts was his rendition of “ Higashimurayama ondo , ” a song written about his hometown .
Mr. Shimura added impish moves to traditional dance forms as he performed it on the variety show , and the routine was popular enough that people all over Japan learned the words whether they had any connection to the town or not .
Mr. Shimura was a lifelong bachelor .
His survivors include two older brothers .
Hisako Ueno contributed reporting .

Hobby Lobby Defies Stay-at-Home Orders by Reopening Some Stores .
2020-04-02 20:56:52 +00:00 .
The arts - and - crafts chain Hobby Lobby was accused of defying stay - at - home orders in at least four states during the coronavirus outbreak , prompting officials to take action against the retailer .
The moves by state and local authorities in Colorado , Indiana , Ohio and Wisconsin to shut the stores down came as governors across much of the United States have signed stay - at - home orders and health authorities have urged Americans to practice social distancing .
Still , some have n’t heeded the advice , from spring breakers to some megachurches .
In Florida , a pastor was arrested after defying virus orders .
W. Eric Kuhn , the senior assistant state attorney general of Colorado , where there are 10 stores , sent a cease - and - desist letter to the company after it had reopened its stores in the state this week .
The letter said the company ’s actions violated a March 25 executive order signed by Gov. Jared Polis directing Coloradans to stay at home and requiring all businesses to close that were not designated by state health officials as critical .
Ohio ’s attorney general , Dave Yost , wrote on Twitter on Wednesday that he had sent a similar cease - and - desist letter to Hobby Lobby and that the company had agreed to close stores in his state , where there are 10 .
“ Same rules for everybody .
It ’s hard .
It hurts .
But it ’s about saving lives , ” Mr. Yost tweeted on Thursday .
The authorities in Wisconsin , where there are also 10 stores and a stay - at - home order is in place until April 24 , encountered similar issues with Hobby Lobby stores .
Officials in West Allis , a city west of Milwaukee , shut down a store on Monday , according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel .
Store locations in other cities around the state were also forced to close on Tuesday after reopening on Monday .
In Jeffersonville , Ind. , the Clark County Health Department closed a Hobby Lobby store that had reopened on Monday .
The store had initially closed on March 24 , according to WLKY , but some employees were asked to return to work when the store reopened .
Last week , Gov. Eric J. Holcomb of Indiana had issued a statewide stay - at - home order , which outlined grocery stores , pharmacies , gas stations as some of the essential businesses allowed to remain open .
While several Hobby Lobby stores in Indiana did appear to be closed on Thursday , employees answering phones at three locations said the stores remained opened ; they referred questions about operating during the outbreak to their corporate office .
Hobby Lobby , which has more than 900 stores across 46 states and is based in Oklahoma City , did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
Last month , the company announced in a statement about Covid-19 that it was closely monitoring developments to ensure it was following recommendations from health authorities .
The company also announced new efforts to safeguard the health and safety of its customers and employees .
In Colorado , Mr. Kuhn wrote that Hobby Lobby had until 5 p.m. on Thursday to comply with the closing order or the state would seek court relief , including a temporary restraining order .
Mr. Kuhn ’s letter was sent to David Green , the founder and chief executive of Hobby Lobby , which is widely known for its Supreme Court challenge of an Affordable Care Act provision requiring family - owned corporations to pay for insurance coverage of contraception .
In a 2014 ruling in favor of Hobby Lobby and a second company , both of which were owned by Christian families , the Supreme Court said the provision had violated a federal law protecting religious freedom .

Rapper Tekashi69 Freed From Prison Over Coronavirus Risk .
2020-04-02 20:35:18 +00:00 .
The rapper Tekashi69 walked out of a federal prison on Thursday , four months short of his two - year term , thanks to a nationwide effort to stem coronavirus outbreak risks at jails and prisons , which health advocates fear might become a tinder box for infections .
Tekashi69 ( born Daniel Hernandez ) , 23 , will finish the remainder of his sentence in home confinement , his lawyer , Lance Lazzaro , said .
Last year , Mr. Hernandez — also known as 6ix9ine — pleaded guilty to a series of gang robberies and shootings , cooperating with authorities by testifying against his former associates in the gang Nine Trey Gangsta Bloods .
He has asthma , which his lawyer argued gave him a heightened vulnerability to the coronavirus .
U.S. District Judge Paul A. Engelmayer , who sentenced him , agreed , writing in a guidance to the Bureau of Prisons last week : “ Had the Court known that sentencing Mr. Hernandez to serve the final four months of his term in a federal prison would have exposed him to a heightened health risk , the Court would have directed that these four months be served instead in home confinement . ”
Mr. Lazzaro , said that the rapper was treated for shortness of breath in the last week , but was feeling better now .
A rising music star and internet personality once known for his long rainbow - colored locks , Mr. Hernandez , who grew up in Brooklyn , had a multiplatinum hit song , “ Fefe , ” with Nicki Minaj in 2018 .
His persona was built around boasts that he could outrun the law even as he live streamed videos of himself with guns and taunted rival gangs online .
But after he was arrested on firearms and racketeering charges in November 2018 , Mr. Hernandez began speaking with the government and agreed to testify for the prosecution against his former gang mates .
Mr. Hernandez , prosecutors noted , turned against Nine Trey Gangsta Bloods — a faction of the Bloods — at great personal risk .
As a result , he was held in a private prison that was run by U.S. Marshals , his lawyer said , and the location of his home confinement could not be revealed .
Mr. Hernandez had previously rejected the idea of entering the witness protection program , saying he planned to continue making music upon his release , which is set for July 31 ( he was given credit for time served at his sentencing ) .
“ He has no intention of going into ” witness protection , Mr. Lazzaro said on Thursday .
“ He hopes to resume his career . ”
The rapper ’s release comes as prison reform advocates and some health officials call for clemency for a large swath of the prison population , citing the impossibility of social distancing in prison cells , the banning of hand sanitizer , and the likelihood that corrections officers would spread the illness in their communities , as the virus catches on among the incarcerated .
Thousands of inmates and officers in municipal , state and federal facilities have already tested positive , and other high - profile inmates , like Bill Cosby and R. Kelly , have also petitioned for home confinement .
Since March 28 , at least five inmates at federal facilities have died because of the coronavirus outbreak , according to the Bureau of Prisons .
Nancy Coleman contributed reporting .

Opinion | Religious Exemption From Florida’s Stay-at-Home Order .
2020-04-02 19:18:14 +00:00 .
To the Editor :
Re “ At Least Trump Has n’t … ” ( column , April 2 ): Gail Collins suggests that Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida will be remembered for allowing partygoers on the beach during spring break .
The full story has yet to be written .
His stay - at - home order on Wednesday was not only too late , but also carved a big exception for churches and synagogues right before Easter and Passover .
Wait for the community spread !
Bill Titelman Palm Beach , Fla.
The Ventilator Shortage To the Editor : Re “ The Ventilators Were on Order .
They Still Are ” ( front page , March 30 ):
What a heartbreaking story , exposing tragic errors caused by the fundamental weakness in our national health care system .
And today we are still making the same mistake .
The states and the federal government are in a bidding war for the old - style , expensive , difficult - to - operate ventilators .
The invocation of the Defense Production Act is a step forward , but the contracted automakers may not start providing this vital equipment until late April .
By then , many thousands will have died unnecessarily .
There is good reason to believe that we can speedily produce simple - to - operate , much less expensive ventilators .
A volunteer team at M.I.T. is on the verge of releasing an open - source prototype .
A team at Oxford University already has a working prototype .
Why are our leaders not supporting or even mentioning these efforts ?
Where is the roadblock ?
It seems that just as before , as this article so clearly shows , passivity overrides foresight and profits are paramount .
In our dire national emergency , who will step up with the courage and vision to mount this rescue effort ?
Eva Sperling
Elisabeth Sperling
New Rochelle , N.Y.
The writers are , respectively , a psychiatrist and a private tutor .
Making Choices About Death
To the Editor :
“ I Love the World , but I Can not Stay , ” by Mary Pipher ( Sunday Review , March 8) , captures a sentiment that many of us older people try to articulate to our families and friends .
How do I want to deal with death and what should I expect when I die ?
It makes me wonder why more people do n’t want to make efforts to manage their death in a way that supports their beliefs .
I suspect that some people will be discussing this as they deal with the Covid-19 virus and all of its unknowns .
I , for one , want to live as long as I can without severe suffering or a significant loss of autonomy .
I do n’t want doctors to tell me when I should die , and I do n’t want to waste a lot of money trying to live for a few more months .
I have procured the things I need for a peaceful death , and hope that I never have to use them , but feel very good knowing that I have them .
Brian Ruder Portland , Ore.
The writer is president of the Final Exit Network .

Predictions for the Coronavirus Stock Market .
2020-04-02 16:12:37 +00:00 .
Consider the cyclically adjusted price - to - earnings ( C.A.P.E. ) ratio ( real stock price divided by a 10 - year average of real earnings , sometimes called the Shiller P / E ) that I have been advocating for decades .
It was 31 in January 2020 .
That was high , surpassed only in two previous periods : the 1929 peak just before the crash , when it was 33 , and in 2000 , just before the 50 percent stock market drop , when it was 44 .
Now , the C.A.P.E. is 23 , compared with the historical average since 1881 of 17 .
From this perspective , the market looks on the expensive side , but not inordinately so .
When the C.A.P.E. has been at such a level , it has tended to show moderate positive , not disastrous , returns over the next 10 years .
If we stopped here , we could be sanguine about the market ’s prospects for the next decade .
After all , epidemiologists conservatively forecast that the present pandemic will be over in a couple of years , at the most , though there may later be resurgences .
We may well have a vaccine and effective treatments for the disease by then .
Unfortunately , though , we ca n’t stop there .
I worry that the present anxious situation may stay in the collective memory for decades , much as the stock market crash of 1929 did .
That could make people more risk - averse , possibly portending lower valuations on the stock market .
Consider that the 1929 crash and the Great Depression have remained vivid in the collective memory for over 90 years .
The stock market record from that period is sobering .
I ’ve calculated the real total return ( including dividends and inflation ) of the SP Composite Stock Price Index .
Using that metric , after the 1929 market peak , stock prices lost three - quarters of their value by 1932 .
They did n’t rise above their 1929 peak until November 1936 , seven years later .

Cuomo Is a Media Hero in the Pandemic. De Blasio Is a Scapegoat. .
2020-04-01 21:22:21 +00:00 .
And Mr. de Blasio ?
He was somewhere in the middle , like most of the media that is now keeping score .
His painfully public three - day Hamlet act over closing schools ended with Mr. Cuomo announcing that they ’d be closed just minutes before Mr. de Blasio ’s planned announcement — both of them days behind some other school systems around the country .
Ms. Breed had her city “ shelter in place ” March 16 ; Mr. de Blasio aired that idea March 17 , to be immediately rebuked by Cuomo , who then put in a similar statewide order four days later .
Today , Mr. Cuomo overrode the mayor to close playgrounds .
The two have tiptoed around one another , and on Tuesday held news conferences at the same hospital ship , an hour apart .
Mr. De Blasio told me his hesitation to shut schools and , effectively , the city was focused on the city as he saw it .
“ The vast majority of New Yorkers are working - class people , are lower income folks , who have no option but to stand and fight , ” he said .
“ They ca n’t go any place else , they do n’t have an alternative to child care , they do n’t have a nanny . ”
And he blamed the media for overlooking those groups to focus on the more affluent classes .
“ Our discourse is inherently about a small subset of our people . ”
The problem with his argument , of course , is that the poor get sick , too .
People close to Mr. de Blasio say he erred in taking a reflexively ideological approach to a fast - moving health crisis .
One former aide worried that the mayor filtered the pandemic through “ a social justice lens ’’ that does not work for this moment .
Mr. De Blasio rejects the criticism that he let his preoccupation with inequality overwhelm his more universal obligations .
But he says the emerging story of the crisis will be about the old inequalities as much as about the new disease .
The city has released largely useless data about where the coronavirus is hitting hardest .
New data is nearly ready , he said , and when it ’s released later this week , it will show that clearly .
“ We ’re going to be able to put out much more true data that will show this tracking with the health disparities that are historically known , ” he said .
“ Coronavirus is equal opportunity , and we have to save and protect everyone — but it ’s increasingly clear where we ’re losing lots of people and how it connects back to historic disparities . ”
Mr. De Blasio ’s hair has cooled off as the briefings have gone on ; he continues to drive his aides crazy by refusing to trust information , as The New York Times ’ Jeffery C. Mays and Joseph Goldstein reported , until he has “ processed it himself . ”
He ’s scrambling like other executives to get supplies for the city ; he was on the phone Monday , he said , with the chief executive of a Swedish ventilator company , pleading New York ’s case .
He ’s now under fire from the right for releasing inmates from city jails .

Florida Governor, at Long Last, Orders Residents to Stay Home to Avoid Coronavirus .
2020-04-01 18:06:26 +00:00 .
MIAMI — Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida , who for weeks has resisted more stringent statewide measures to slow the spread of the coronavirus , said on Wednesday that he would order the state ’s more than 21 million residents to largely stay at home .
Mr. DeSantis , a Republican , relented after a morning telephone call with President Trump , who on Tuesday delivered the gravest projections yet from the White House suggesting that up to 240,000 Americans could die from the infection , even with serious restrictions in place .
The governor said he started coming around to the necessity of a statewide order once the White House dropped its earlier , rosier suggestion that stringent social distancing measures could be lifted by mid - April , and extended national guidelines to combat the coronavirus until April 30 .
“ When the president did the 30 - day extension , to me , that was , ‘ People are n’t just going to go back to work , ’ ”
Mr. DeSantis said at a news conference in Tallahassee , the state capital .
“ That ’s a national pause button . ”
He said his order , which he plans to sign later on Wednesday , would take effect Thursday at midnight .
The coronavirus poses a unique risk for Florida , the third - largest state in the country , where a quarter of the population is older than 60 and the economy relies in large part on an $ 86 billion - a - year tourism industry fueled by 125 million annual visitors .
“ Obviously in Florida , the tourism is totally shot right now , ” Mr. DeSantis said .
Mr. DeSantis has also been reluctant to break with Mr. Trump , who helped him win the governorship .
Their close relationship has weighed on the president throughout the federal response to the coronavirus threat .
A newly declared resident of Florida , Mr. Trump sees the state as vital to his re - election , and he has been responsive to Mr. DeSantis ’s requests for such things as drive - through testing sites and protective equipment for health care workers .
As recently as Monday , Mr. DeSantis had insisted that the only stay - at - home order he had signed , for the state ’s four most densely populated counties from Key West to West Palm Beach , would be needed only through April 15 .
On Tuesday , Mr. DeSantis said one reason he had not extended the order statewide was because the White House coronavirus task force had made no such recommendation .
Patricia Mazzei reported from Miami , and Maggie Haberman from New York .

Dr. James T. Goodrich, Who Operated on Conjoined Twins, Dies at 73 .
2020-04-01 17:07:59 +00:00 .
Dr. James T. Goodrich , a pediatric neurosurgeon known for successfully separating conjoined twins in a complicated and rare procedure , died on Monday at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx .
He was 73 .
The cause was complications of the coronavirus , according to Montefiore , where he was the director of pediatric neurosurgery and had spent more than 30 years of his career .
Dr. Goodrich was thrust into public view when he conducted a series of four operations over nearly a year on Clarence and Carl Aguirre , twins from the Philippines who were joined at the tops of their heads and shared major veins in their brains .
Dr. Goodrich led a team of surgeons at Montefiore ’s Children ’s Hospital , and the twins ’ story generated headlines , including in The New York Times , and was the subject of television specials .
During the final surgery , in August 2004 , the team discovered that the twins ’ brains were connected by more brain tissue than they had initially thought , a potentially serious complication .
“ We got to this point and we were stuck , ” Dr. Goodrich told The Times after the operation , but “ we did a lot of soul - searching , ” and decided to continue .
Hours later , Clarence and Carl lay next to each other , alive and well .
They had no major complications after the surgery , and their mother , Arlene Aguirre , said , “ My dream has come true . ”
Carl and Clarence , who turn 18 later this month , live with their mother in Scarsdale , NY .
James Tait Goodrich was born in Portland , Ore. , on Apr. 16 , 1946 , to Richard , who worked in advertising , and Gail ( Josselyn )
Goodrich , an artist and designer .
He served in the Marines during the Vietnam War , then studied neurosurgery and psychobiology at the University of California , Irvine ; Columbia University ; and the Neurological Institute of New York before starting at Montefiore .
He married Judy Laudin in 1970 .
In addition to his wife , he is survived by three sisters , Kristen Goodrich , Jan Rentenaar and Carol Montecucco .
In another celebrated case , Dr. Goodrich led a team of 40 surgeons in a 27 - hour procedure in 2016 to separate another set of twin boys , the seventh separation procedure of his long career .

First Woman Drafted in N.B.A. Avoids Coronavirus, but Not Its Frustrations .
2020-04-01 11:02:35 +00:00 .
So devoted was she that she once soaked an injured ankle in a bucket of Epsom salt while at the movies .
One summer , Rife and a cousin dragged a mattress to the park in Whitten , shooting and taking breaks until dawn approached , once calling their coach at 2 a.m. to let him know they were practicing .
Another time , during the winter , Rife shot by herself when it was 11 degrees below zero and the ball felt like glass that might shatter .
But she also became aware of pressure and expectations in high school and grew nervous on game days .
Her neck broke out in red blotches in study hall and she listened to Dean Martin and Beatles records to calm herself .
Her cousin and teammate , Cyndy Long , could break the tension , too , with funny poems she wrote and recited on the team bus or in the locker room .
“ She drank Pepto - Bismol before every game , ” Long , 66 , said .
“ So I tried to make her laugh . ”
In May 1969 , Rife was in the principal ’s office at Union - Whitten when a fellow student told her that she had been drafted .
“ Like the Army ? ”
Rife said .
No , the San Francisco Warriors of the N.B.A.
“ Do I have to go ? ”
she asked .
Franklin Mieuli , the Warriors ’ owner at the time , drafted Rife in the 13th round .
It was a publicity stunt , and the pick was nullified .
But Mieuli formed a four - team women ’s league in the Bay Area .
For a season , the teams played a full game before Warriors games and an exhibition at halftime .
Mieuli paid for Rife to attend the University of San Francisco , gave her $ 5,000 in expense money and leased a purple Jaguar for her to drive .
Johnny Carson , a fellow Iowan , invited Rife to be on the “ The Tonight Show . ”
And she met Wilt Chamberlain who , seven years earlier , had scored 100 points in a game for the then - Philadelphia Warriors .
As she recalled , Chamberlain asked , “ Are n’t you the young lady who broke my record ? ”
“ Yes , ” Rife replied , “ but I did n’t mean to . ”

A Coronavirus Thriller Was Finished Just Before the Shutdown .
2020-03-31 15:32:32 +00:00 .
VANCOUVER , B.C. —
In between the time the coronavirus started to make headlines but before life shut down to restrain the pandemic , an independent filmmaker conceived , shot and finished postproduction on a movie about the contagion .
Thanks to the availability of relatively cheap digital equipment , there is rarely much lag time these days between real - life events — like Hurricane Sandy in 2012 or the Japanese tsunami in 2011 — and films about them .
But this new movie , by Mostafa Keshvari , is unusual in that it was made even as the story is still unfolding .
Keshvari ’s 63 - minute “ Corona ” looks at what happens when seven people are trapped in an elevator , only to discover that one of them has Covid-19 .
The movie is about fear and “ a study of society , people and moral choices , ” Keshvari , 33 , said in recent phone and email interviews about the movie .
“ We are all in this ride together . ”
Vancouver , known as “ Hollywood North , ” is Canada ’s gateway to Asia , and also an epicenter in the country ’s Covid-19 crisis .
As news reached here of a “ Wuhan virus , ” there were increasing reports of harassment of Chinese - Canadians and others of Asian heritage .
Patronage of Chinese - Canadian businesses dropped by up to 70 percent .
The filmmaker was in an elevator reading the headlines when he had the idea .
“ There were just so many incidents , ” said Keshvari , who also runs BC Minorities in Film TV Society , a network for budding artists from minority backgrounds .
At the time he embarked on his project , “ nobody thought a white person could get it .
But the virus does n’t discriminate . ”
In real life , “ everyone faces discrimination , all different kinds , ” he said , so if he could “ bring all these people ” together in the film and “ trap them , ” he thought , then their “ true colors come out . ”
Starting in late January , he spent two weeks writing the script ; the set took 10 more days to create .
“ We rented a space and we built an elevator , ” he said .
“ Ultralow budget . ”
Some cast members he already knew ; others he found through word of mouth .
The director also left room to improvise .
“ I told them : ‘ Imagine that the actual coronavirus is in this elevator . ’ ”
He wanted the action to unfold in real time , he said .
“ My struggle was to make sure it was all one shot , ” Keshvari said .
Over three days in February , it took nearly 70 takes to pull that off .
Money was running out .
And time .
“ It helped with the anxiety of the film , ” he said .
Outside , the coronavirus moved fast .
“ We thought it was just going to pass , ” Keshvari said .
“ No one could have imagined . ”
He had planned to submit the film , finished before the city declared a state of emergency , to festivals .
“ Unfortunately , that ’s not the case anymore , ” he said , as nearly every such event has been canceled for the foreseeable future .
Streaming is the most likely option .
The movie “ belongs to humanity , ” he said .
As for Keshvari ’s cast and his crew of 25 , he said , so far they are well .

Opinion | Coronavirus Has Taught Us More About Trump Than We Wanted to Know .
2020-03-31 09:02:01 +00:00 .
Bret : If Biden is going to make himself more relevant to the moment , I think he needs to do more than emphasize his command of bureaucracy or his experience of personal tragedy .
He ’s going to need to reintroduce voters to the “ Scranton Joe ” side of his biography .
One reason I suspect Trump is benefiting politically from the pandemic is that he ’s been talking about minimizing the economic fallout and getting the country back to work .
That might be irresponsible from a medical and epidemiological point of view .
But it resonates with millions of Americans , especially small business owners and their employees faced with complete financial ruin if the shutdowns carry on for months .
Biden needs to compete with those voters , particularly those in must - win states like Pennsylvania and Michigan .
Gail : How are you feeling about the shutdowns ?
As it stands now , it ’s easy to imagine them going on for months .
Even if New York does hit its peak in April , as the experts are now predicting , it ’ll be summer before we ’re really back to normalcy .
And even then the virus will probably be wreaking havoc in other parts of the country where the contagion started later .
Bret : I ’m not averse to the kinds of shutdowns that have been imposed so far , especially in dense urban areas where the risk of mass contagion is so high .
I ’m not averse to extending them by another three weeks , either , as Trump did over the weekend .
We ’ve got an urgent health crisis and critical shortages of essential medical equipment , particularly ventilators , so buying some time makes sense .
On the other hand , the idea of a much longer nationwide shutdown strikes me as no less dangerous , potentially more so .
The economic damage would be monumental , beyond anything in the power of the government to fix .
It runs the risk of creating a secondary health crisis in terms of depression , isolation , suicide , addiction and so on .
And even then the virus is going to continue to run its course until we ’ve found a vaccine or at least more effective medication .
Gail : You know I ’m going to ask you what the alternative is .
Bret : I ’m intrigued by countries like Holland and Sweden , which are pursuing a mitigation strategy instead of a suppression strategy .
Obviously the jury is still out on what sort of outcomes they ’ll have , and perhaps they ’ll be terrible .
But given that this is a pandemic whose consequences are going to be so far - reaching , I think there ought to be room for a certain amount of variety and intelligent experimentation in terms of response .
Then again , I ’m not often in the habit of advocating the Swedish model !
Gail : Having lived through decades of fruitless arguments about why we should emulate Sweden , I ’m just going to shrug and cede the point .
But go on .

Met Museum Tells Staff It Is Extending Pay Until May 2 .
2020-03-31 01:15:30 +00:00 .
The Metropolitan Museum of Art has announced that it will extend pay for all staff until May 2 , providing job security for another month to its 2,200 employees as millions of Americans experience layoffs triggered by the coronavirus pandemic .
“ Our highest priority remains to support our staff as best we can in helping to keep everyone safe and as financially secure as possible , ” said Daniel Weiss , the museum ’s president and chief executive officer .
“ We realize that this announcement of a four - week extension of full salary support does not provide enduring comfort , but at the moment it is the best we can do in a rapidly evolving situation . ”
Met employees had previously been told that the museum could only guarantee salary payments until April 4 .
Separately , the Met reached an agreement with the union representing its guards and maintenance crews to provide time - and - a - half hazard pay for essential staff who must continue working onsite during the shutdown .
Even after the museum reopens to the public , officials expect to see reduced revenue and attendance .
As a temporary solution , the Met is exploring whether there is any way it could dip into its $ 3.6 billion endowment fund .
“ No endowed organization that loses its revenue can spend down its endowment without limitation since spending from it today has to be balanced against preserving it to support operations tomorrow , ” Mr. Weiss cautioned in an email co - signed by Max Hollein , the museum ’s director ,
The museum world often looks to the Met for leadership as it did earlier this month when , shortly after the museum decided to close in an effort to help contain the spread of the coronavirus , hundreds of other cultural institutions followed suit .
Few museums , though , have the financial resources that the Met does .
“ It ’s very challenging right now because we do n’t have any type of benchmark , ” said Seema Rao , deputy director of the Akron Art Museum in Ohio .
“ We are all watching the Met for guidance and trying to prioritize our staff as best we can .
But we are a medium - sized institution going into our third payroll without any revenue , and many of our funders have also taken hits . ”
Faced with a shortfall of almost $ 1 million dollars , Akron has announced that some of its 35 - member full time staff would be furloughed , others would be cut back to part - time and department heads would take 10 percent pay cuts .
The Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh have furloughed more than half their 1,003 employees .
Last week in Los Angeles , the Hammer Museum laid off 150 part - time student workers .
And recently , the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art laid off almost three - quarters of its 165 - person staff .
But on Monday afternoon , the American Museum of Natural History announced that it would pay staff through May 15 by requiring full - time employees to take two vacation days per week and cutting compensation for part - time workers .
“ The cultural sector as a whole and artists in particular are really hurting right now , ” said Michael L. Royce , executive director of the New York Foundation for the Arts , a nonprofit that runs a popular listing of jobs in creative fields .
Since early March , the foundation has seen an 88 percent drop in listings ; during the same period , page views have more than tripled for its emergency resource section .
“ We are only at the beginning of this crisis , and the full impact is not yet known , ” Mr. Royce added , “ but what we do know is that many in the arts have lost their jobs and need work and emergency relief funding desperately and immediately . ”
Robin Pogrebin contributed reporting .

Congress Just Spent $2 Trillion on Coronavirus Relief. It’s Eying More. .
2020-03-30 23:51:54 +00:00 .
Virginia and Maryland , as well as the District of Columbia , issued new orders on Monday for residents to stay home .
And in Florida , Gov. Ron DeSantis , a Republican who had resisted a statewide edict , said that he would sign an directive codifying a patchwork of local rules urging residents in the densely - populated southeast corner of the state — including Miami - Dade , Broward , Palm Beach and Monroe Counties — to stay at home .
Even as Mr. Trump suggested that his administration is allowing governors to do “ pretty much what they want , with our supervision , ” Dr. Deborah L. Birx , the White House coronavirus response coordinator , said every governor and mayor should implement new , longer - term distancing guidelines put in place on Sunday .
“ When you look at all of the states together , all of them are moving at exactly the same curve , ” Dr. Birx said .
“ And that ’s why we really believe this needs to be federal guidance , so that every state understands that it may look like two cases today that becomes 20 , that become 200 , that become 2,000 — and that ’s what we ’re trying to prevent . ”
Mr. Trump continued to clash behind the scenes with governors over the availability of testing , suggesting on a private call that a chronic lack of kits to test people for Covid-19 is no longer a problem even as some of them insisted that they still lacked the supplies they needed .
Across the country , companies — including several major retailers — announced huge layoffs .
Macy ’s , which had 125,000 employees at the end of last year , said on Monday that it would furlough most of them after having lost “ the majority ” of its sales because of store closures .
L Brands , which owns Victoria ’s Secret and Bath Body Works , also said it would furlough most store staff , and Gap said on Monday it would furlough nearly 80,000 store employees in the United States and Canada .
In Washington , Ms. Pelosi and other officials involved in previous negotiations have acknowledged that it is unlikely that any legislation to address the crisis would be ready for a floor vote before mid - April , with both the House and Senate in recess and not scheduled to return to Capitol Hill until April 20 .
Some officials involved in the talks , including Representative Kevin McCarthy of California , the minority leader , have suggested there may be no need for another round of government relief .
Mr. Mnuchin , who had previously said he expected a second round of direct payments to Americans would be needed , also said on Sunday that he hoped it would not be needed .

The Doctor’s Symptoms Weren’t Typical. Was She Sick Enough to Stay Home? .
2020-03-30 20:32:32 +00:00 .
A Sense of Vindication
After the phone call , the young woman was overwhelmed with relief .
Later that morning , the head of her residency program called .
How would she feel about letting her colleagues know about her diagnosis ?
This way they might feel better about calling in sick if they had symptoms that did n’t seem that bad .
Remembering how important the story about the E.R. doctor had been in her own decision , she immediately agreed .
She ’d already called the people she interacted with on her last morning at work .
In an email , she described her symptoms and the anxiety she had about calling in sick .
“ It can be tough to stay home , especially at a time like this , but it ’s the best thing that we can do to keep our patients , families and each other safe , ” she wrote .
Once she hit send , she felt a sense of satisfaction , she told me .
But that night , although she believed she was done with this virus , she found that it was n’t done with her .
Unexpected New Symptoms
On March 21 , a week after her first symptoms , the young resident was reading a book when suddenly she felt as if her chest was squeezed tight , as if there was a band restricting the expansion of her ribs and lungs .
She ’d never felt anything like it before , and it scared her .
She stood and felt lightheaded .
“ I do n’t feel good , ” she said to her husband .
“ I ca n’t breathe . ”
The suddenness with which this came on argued against its being a pneumonia .
Could this be a panic attack ?
She tried taking deep breaths and relaxing .
It did n’t help .
She needed to go to the E.R. , she told him .
She put on a face mask , and the couple headed to the hospital where they worked .
The woman fought against a rising sense of panic .
Every stoplight seemed torture .
There were reports of this virus causing sudden death .
Was she dying ?
Would it just keep getting harder to breathe ?
In the emergency room , her heart was beating faster than normal , and she was breathing rapidly , but her oxygen level was fine .
“ Do n’t leave me alone , ” she pleaded with her husband and the nurse who took her to a negative - pressure room .
Over the course of the next couple of hours , blood tests were done , and an EKG and X - ray were performed .
Her doctors wanted to make sure she did n’t have something on top of her known viral infection .
One blood test looked for an increase in white blood cells in her circulation — a sign of a possible bacterial infection .
It was normal .
The other tests were equally unrevealing .
The EKG showed no evidence of heart damage .
The chest X - ray showed no sign of a pneumonia .
The weight on the young woman ’s chest did n’t get better , but it got no worse .
Early reports of Covid-19 cases in China showed that some patients who already had serious symptoms suddenly got worse a week or more into their illness , a so - called second - week crash .
It ’s still not clear exactly what might be causing this late exacerbation .
After promising the doctors she ’d come back if she felt any worse , the young doctor and her husband went home .
Getting Back to Work
I spoke with the patient on March 26 , and she told me she was feeling better .
She gets a little out of breath when she climbs the four flights of stairs to her apartment , but even that is improving .
Right now , she ’s focused on going back to work — she recently tested negative .
Although no one knows for certain if getting the infection provides long - term immunity , current thinking is that she is probably immune to the virus for now .
She is eager to return to the fight and , given the proper equipment , is ready to take her place at the very front lines of this war .

Early van Gogh Painting Stolen From Dutch Museum .
2020-03-30 17:48:38 +00:00 .
BERLIN — A Vincent van Gogh painting was stolen overnight from a small museum in Laren in the Netherlands , just 20 miles southwest from Amsterdam , on what would have been the artist ’s 167th birthday .
“ I feel enormous anger and sadness , ” Jan Rudolph de Lorm , the museum ’s director , said in a telephone interview .
“ Because especially in these dark days that we are in , I feel so strongly that art is here to comfort us , to inspire us and to heal us . ”
The police were called to the museum at 3:15 a.m. , when an alarm went off .
By the time they got there , the thief or thieves were already gone , said a spokeswoman for the Dutch police .
All the police found was a shattered glass door and a bare spot on the wall where the painting was displayed .
Hours later , the authorities announced that the work , “ The Parsonage Garden at Nuenen in Spring , ” was taken .
The heist comes as museums in much of Europe and the United States are closed in attempts to stem the spread of the coronavirus .
It also comes eight years after a spectacular breach at a museum in Rotterdam , where thieves made off with seven paintings valued at more than 100 million euros by forcing an emergency exit , exposing the relatively weak security systems at some art museums .
Coronavirus or not , guards are not usually posted at the museum overnight .
The alarm system is linked straight to the local police .
“ They knew what they were doing , going straight for the famous master , ” Mr. de Lorm said .
The police agreed that it would have taken minutes from the time of forced entry to leaving the premises .
The painting was on loan from the Gröninger Museum for a special exhibition , “ Mirror of the Soul , ” which was to run from January to May.
“ It ’s an early picture , before Arles and before Paris , so it is darker and less recognizable as a van Gogh , ” said Andreas Blühm , the director of the Gröninger .
Because of the coronavirus outbreak , museums in the Netherlands closed on March 13 , and the Laren Singer had announced that it would be closed until at least June 1 .
“ It was a very successful exhibition , attracting over 5,000 visitors a week ; that is a lot of us , ” Mr. de Lorm said .
The picture was painted in 1884 when van Gogh , then 30 , moved back in with his parents , who , according to Mr. Blühm , were unconvinced of his career as an artist .
“ It is one of our main works of art , ” Mr. Blühm said , noting he hoped it would be found .
“ But every piece of art that is stolen from a public museum is art that is stolen from society . ”
A couple of van Gogh paintings that were stolen from a museum in Amsterdam 18 years ago resurfaced four years ago .
Asked whether the artist ’s birthday figured in the heist , Mr. de Lorm said the thieves probably did not know .
“ It ’s just strange coincidence , synchronicity — that sometimes happens in life , ” he said .

The Week in Business: Throwing Money at a Pandemic .
2020-03-29 09:02:28 +00:00 .
Waiting to Load
No , it ’s not your imagination : The pandemic is slowing down the internet .
Now that we ’re all stuck at home , holding meetings on Zoom , doing virtual happy hours , watching Netflix and poking around online to distract ourselves , broadband networks are buckling under the sudden surge in traffic .
Median download speeds have dropped 24 percent in New York , and they ’re down 4.9 percent across the country .
To ease stress on internet infrastructure , YouTube has said it will lower the definition of its videos worldwide , while other tech companies have pushed back new streaming services and product releases .
Tips for impatient consumers : Watch videos on standard definition instead of high , and make sure to install software updates .
Image Credit ...
Giacomo Bagnara What ’s Next ?
( March 29 - April 4 )
What ’s Your Number ?
A hallmark of the new stimulus bill is that most Americans will get cash payouts deposited straight into their bank accounts within the next three weeks , a historic move by the federal government .
( If the Internal Revenue Service does n’t have your banking information , you ’ll have to wait a little longer for a check to arrive in the mail . )
So how much are we talking ?
If you ’re a single adult with an adjusted gross income of less than $ 75,000 a year , you ’ll be eligible to receive $ 1,200 .
Married couples who make less than $ 150,000 a year can receive $ 2,400 .
And any of the above can tack on $ 500 for every dependent child .
Those who make more than $ 75,000 ( or couples who make more than $ 150,000 ) will get less , and those who make more than $ 99,000 a year ( or $ 198,000 , for a couple ) wo n’t get anything .
Do n’t Hurry Back
Contradicting health officials , President Trump said early last week that he hoped Americans would go back to work around Easter , adding that the economic damage of the coronavirus should not be worse than the disease itself .
But medical professionals have cautioned that prematurely resuming business as usual would be disastrous .
Jerome Powell , the Federal Reserve chair , sided with science , reiterating — in case it was up for debate — that the deadly virus was a bigger enemy than a recession .
“ The first order of business will be to get the spread of the virus under control , and then to resume economic activity , ” he said .
Oil Wars
You thought gas was cheap now ?
Just wait until later this week , when the current OPEC deal to curb oil production runs out on April 1 , opening the floodgates .
Negotiations among the major oil - producing countries fell apart after the two biggest players , Saudi Arabia and Russia , failed to agree on terms .
This is good news , theoretically , for your next trip to the gas station — whenever that day may come — but not great for stock markets , which plunged after efforts to renew the deal collapsed two weeks ago .
Analysts predict that oil prices will remain unusually low for months , especially as the coronavirus continues to hurt demand .

Cuomo Postpones New York’s Primary Election From April 28 to June 23 .
2020-03-28 17:03:54 +00:00 .
New York will postpone its April 28 presidential primary until June 23 , Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced on Saturday , buying time for the state to administer an election as it struggles to respond to the escalating coronavirus outbreak .
“ I do n’t think it ’s wise to be bringing a lot of people to one location to vote , a lot of people touching one doorknob , a lot of people touching one pen , ” Mr. Cuomo said in a news conference .
“ So we are going to delay that and link it to an election that was previously scheduled on June 23 . ”
A primary for state legislative and congressional races had already been set for June 23 , and now all of the state ’s primary elections will be held on the same date , he said .
Ten other states , as well as Puerto Rico , have rescheduled their primary elections as the campaign calendar has been upended by the outbreak , citing guidance from health officials who have urged people to avoid gathering spots , including polling places .
A handful of other states have switched to voting entirely by mail and have extended deadlines for doing so .
Under rules set by the Democratic National Committee , the state risks forfeiting some delegates at the national convention for voting so late in the party ’s nomination cycle .
Several other states have shifted their primaries to June 2 , which has suddenly become a significant date on the Democratic primary calendar .
It falls just before a June 9 deadline for voting set by the D.N.C.
In the past week , it had become apparent that holding New York ’s primary as scheduled would be difficult .
County elections officials throughout New York had been pressing for a delay , pointing to logistical difficulties tied to the state ’s growing coronavirus crisis .
Noting that entry to many traditional polling places had been restricted and that elections employees and volunteers throughout the state had been ordered to remain home , the bipartisan organization representing elections officials in all 62 counties argued that the pandemic had rendered it dangerous to carry out the routine of preparing for an election — visiting polling sites , testing machines and printing ballots .
“ Elections board around the state are risking personnel safety and health to prepare for impending elections on April 28 , ” the Elections Commissions ’ Association of the State of New York said in a news release last Tuesday .
Some influential Democrats in New York had privately expressed hope that the election could be avoided all together , pointing out that a decision by Senator Bernie Sanders to withdraw would remove the need for a costly and logistically difficult primary vote .
State Democratic Party chair Jay Jacobs , citing former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ’s substantial lead in the delegate count , questioned whether Mr. Sanders should continue his campaign absent a legitimate chance for the nomination .
“ There ’s nothing to be gained by keeping the contest going if there ’s no reasonable path , ” Mr. Jacobs said .
The state ’s Republican primary — which would also would have been held on April 28 — had been called off in March after President Trump , the presumptive nominee , was the only candidate who qualified to appear on the ballot .
Had the Democratic primary been canceled , the duty of selecting delegates to the Democratic National Convention would have been left up to the party ’s state committee .
The State Board of Elections had explored the possibility of holding New York ’s primary entirely by mail , but the board ’s staff concluded that county elections offices were not geared up to process huge volumes of mail - in ballots .

Cuomo Postpones New York’s Primary Election From April 28 to June 23 .
2020-03-28 16:42:42 +00:00 .
New York will postpone its April 28 presidential primary until June 23 , Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced on Saturday , buying time for the state to administer an election as it struggles to respond to the escalating coronavirus outbreak .
Ten other states , as well as Puerto Rico , have rescheduled their primary elections as the campaign calendar has been upended by the outbreak , citing guidance from health officials who have urged people to avoid gathering spots , including polling places .
A handful of other states have switched to voting entirely by mail and have extended deadlines for doing so .
New York had previously scheduled other state and federal primary balloting for June 23 , the reason that date was selected as the substitute for the presidential primary .
But under rules set by the Democratic National Committee , the state risks forfeiting some delegates at the national convention for voting so late in the party ’s nomination cycle .
Several other states have shifted their primaries to June 2 , which has suddenly become a significant date on the Democratic primary calendar .
It falls just before a June 9 deadline for voting set by the D.N.C.
In the past week , it had become apparent that holding New York ’s primary as scheduled would be difficult .
County elections officials throughout New York had been pressing for a delay , pointing to logistical difficulties tied to the state ’s growing coronavirus crisis .
Noting that entry to many traditional polling places had been restricted and that elections employees and volunteers throughout the state had been ordered to remain home , the bipartisan organization representing elections officials in all 62 counties argued that the pandemic had rendered it dangerous to carry out the routine of preparing for an election — visiting polling sites , testing machines and printing ballots .
“ Elections board around the state are risking personnel safety and health to prepare for impending elections on April 28 , ” the Elections Commissions ’ Association of the State of New York said in a news release last Tuesday .
Some influential Democrats in New York had privately expressed hope that the election could be avoided all together , pointing out that a decision by Senator Bernie Sanders to withdraw would remove the need for a costly and logistically difficult primary vote .
State Democratic Party chair Jay Jacobs , citing former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ’s substantial lead in the delegate count , questioned whether Mr. Sanders should continue his campaign absent a legitimate chance for the nomination .
“ There ’s nothing to be gained by keeping the contest going if there ’s no reasonable path , ” Mr. Jacobs said .
The state ’s Republican primary — which would also would have been held on April 28 — had been called off in March after President Trump , the presumptive nominee , was the only candidate who qualified to appear on the ballot .
Had the Democratic primary been canceled , the duty of selecting delegates to the Democratic National Convention would have been left up to the party ’s state committee .
The State Board of Elections had explored the possibility of holding New York ’s primary entirely by mail , but the board ’s staff concluded that county elections offices were not geared up to process huge volumes of mail - in ballots .

Grappling With the Impact of Coronavirus: This Week in the 2020 Race .
2020-03-28 09:03:09 +00:00 .
Hello , from the socially distanced land of our comfy ( read : tiny ) New York apartments !
Electoral politics as we know them are on pause at the moment , and the coronavirus has upended the Democratic primary race in many ways .
Here ’s a look at exactly how , and notes on other things you might have missed in the 2020 race this week .
How to campaign during the coronavirus outbreak As President Trump has appeared before the nation for daily briefings and labeled himself a “ wartime president , ” former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. — the candidate who seems all but certain to face Mr. Trump in the general election — has faced questions online and even at virtual fund - raisers about why he has kept a relatively low profile .
The outbreak has , of course , forced Mr. Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont off the physical campaign trail .
And the unusual situation has left Mr. Biden trying to figure out how to position himself as a prominent voice on the crisis .
“ I want to be in daily or at least , you know , significant contact with the American people and communicate what I would be doing , what I think we should be doing and how we should be doing it , ” Mr. Biden said on Sunday .
Reshaping the health care debate
If you ’ve watched any of the Democratic debates or attended any campaign events , you know that health care has long been a central issue in the 2020 presidential race .
Adding the coronavirus pandemic to the equation has made the stakes even higher and made the difference between Democratic and Republican visions of what the system should look like even more stark .
Advancing “ Medicare for all ” has , for two cycles now , been Mr. Sanders ’s central policy priority , and our colleague Sydney Ember reports that he “ believes he can meld this moment of national crisis with the progressive policy agenda that has been his life ’s work . ”
In related news : Will there be another debate ?
Mr. Sanders would like to debate Mr. Biden again if , in fact , a debate is held in April as originally planned .
“ Senator Sanders is still running for president , ” Mike Casca , one of his top campaign officials , said on Tuesday .
“ If there is a debate in April , he plans to be there . ”
Mr. Biden , not so much .
“ I have n’t thought about any more debates , ” he said a day later .
“ I think we ’ve had enough debates .
I think we should get on with this . ”
The Democratic National Committee said previously that there would be a debate in April , but one has not been scheduled and the committee has not announced a media partner or a site host .
How about another Super Tuesday ?
Thanks to multiple postponements connected to public health concerns , as many as 10 states and the District of Columbia may now hold primaries on June 2 , making it suddenly quite important to the Democratic race .
As of this writing , June 2 would confer a trove of delegates so large it would be second only to Super Tuesday in early March .
And as such , the June Tuesday that was once an afterthought could now represent Mr. Biden ’s first chance to clinch the presidential nomination .
And finally …
For us , just as for so many of you , the coronavirus outbreak has been and will continue to be front of mind when it comes to news .
Our politics team will continue to vigorously cover the 2020 race and all of the ways it is being affected by the pandemic , and we urge you to keep reading .
But for now , this weekly roundup will go on hiatus .
We hope we can rejoin you when things get a little bit more back to normal .

Fed Releases Details of BlackRock Deal for Virus Response .
2020-03-27 21:48:24 +00:00 .
The world ’s largest asset manager wo n’t be making a mint off the Federal Reserve .
BlackRock , the firm hired by the Fed this week to help manage the purchase of billions of dollars worth of bonds , will earn relatively modest fees for its work , according to a contract posted Friday .
The firm , which manages nearly $ 7 trillion in assets , will earn no more than $ 7.75 million per year for the main bond portfolio it will manage .
It will also be prohibited from earning fees on the sale of bond - backed exchange traded funds , a segment of the market it dominates .
The contract , posted on the website for the New York Federal Reserve , was made public just days after the Fed announced it hired BlackRock ’s advisory business to run three programs aimed at stabilizing a corporate bond market that has been roiled by the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic .
Contracts for the other two programs have not been released .
The disclosure of the deal ’s terms was a sharp contrast to the secretive way a similar arrangement was handled during the 2008 financial crisis , when BlackRock and a few other firms were hired to manage and advise on programs aimed at stabilizing the markets .
Those contracts were not made public until months later and , in some cases , the fees paid to those firms were never disclosed .
Back then , the New York Federal Reserve retained BlackRock to help oversee billions of dollars in ailing assets left over after the collapses of Bear Stearns and American International Group .
BlackRock helped price and sell those assets for the government at the same time it was helping private clients buy similar assets , which prompted criticism from lawmakers and others who worried about coziness between Wall Street and Washington .
This time , the terms are more clear .
BlackRock will start out earning about two cents on the dollar for each bond purchase , but the quarterly fee on those additional purchases will be reduced as the portfolio grows beyond $ 20 billion .
Once the portfolio exceeds $ 50 billion , BlackRock will not earn additional fees for managing those surplus bond purchases .
The contract also contains language requiring BlackRock to “ maintain and enforce corporatewide policies and procedures providing for information barriers and addressing potential conflicts of interest . ”
Central bankers also set terms that prohibit BlackRock ’s from earning fees from the purchase of bond - backed E.T.F.s .
BlackRock is as one of the world ’s biggest originator of E.T.F.s and would have otherwise stood to benefit from a Fed program to buy E.T.F.s that are backed by corporate bonds .
The term sheet posted by the New York Fed also said “ BlackRock will not earn any other fees or income , including from securities lending , in connection with the facility ’s purchase of E.T.F.s . ”
Dennis Kelleher , chief executive of Better Markets , a nonprofit group that supports stringent financial regulation , said it appeared that Jay Powell , the Federal Reserve chairman , was taking steps to show the public and elected leaders it wanted to earn their trust .
“ They learned the lesson from the last time that needless secrecy breeds suspicion and destroys credibility , ” he said .

Opinion | It’s Too Late to Avoid Disaster, but There Are Still Things We Can Do .
2020-03-27 21:07:21 +00:00 .
For example , even as 3 M was producing at 100 percent of its capacity ( 35 million N-95 masks a month ) , a single hospital in New York City used up more than two million masks in February , before the surge in Covid-19 cases there .
And new production wo n’t happen for many months .
If you ca n’t make nearly enough masks to meet the need , then you must conserve the masks you can make .
Unfortunately , some hospitals in the United States are not employing science - based methods for conserving these invaluable lifesaving masks .
Making ventilators — machines that breathe for patients who can not effectively do so on their own — poses an even more formidable challenge .
For example , a Medtronic ventilator has about 1,500 parts , supplied by 14 separate countries .
More machines might , at best , be manufactured by the hundreds a month — but not by the thousands , as is needed right now .
It is precisely in the face of such hard truths that a national strategy and leadership are crucial .
Otherwise , hospitals , governors and politicians will only vie against one another in the reasonable service of their own constituencies .
“ Respirators , ventilators , all of the equipment — try getting it yourselves , ” Mr. Trump said on a recent conference call with governors .
“ We will be backing you , but try getting it yourselves .
Point of sales , much better , much more direct if you can get it yourself . ”
This is exactly the wrong message .
The White House must take charge , keeping track of national inventory , purchasing the precious resources and distributing them where they are most needed at the moment .
As Andrew Cuomo , the governor of New York , has suggested , ventilators could then be redistributed as outbreak hot spots shift around the country .
More than anything , what the United States needs right now is for the president to undertake an intellectual Manhattan Project : gather the best minds in public health , medicine , medical ethics , catastrophe preparedness and response ; political leadership ; and private - sector manufacturing and the pharmaceutical industry .
It took nearly three years to develop the atomic bomb .
The effort against Covid-19 will need to be bear fruit within days — and come up with a comprehensive but realistic blueprint for getting America through the next 12 to 18 months , or however long it takes for a vaccine to become widely available or herd immunity to take hold in the population .
Once a plan has been devised , the president will have to dispense with any happy talk and instead actually convey what the experts are telling him .
He will have to define the new normal for a frightened nation that is looking for facts , direction and a common purpose .
Michael T. Osterholm is director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota .
Mark Olshaker is a writer and documentary filmmaker .
They are the authors of “ Deadliest Enemy : Our War Against Killer Germs . ”
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor .
We ’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles .
Here are some tips .
And here ’s our email : letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter ( @NYTopinion ) and Instagram .

Chicago closes its lakefront parks and beaches to deter crowds. .
2020-03-26 22:34:48 +00:00 .
LEEDS , England — Suddenly , it seems , everyone wants a milkman .
The surge has been going on for a week or so , Peter Critchley said .
As the British government ’s measures to slow the coronavirus ’s spread have grown incrementally tighter , as towns and cities have fallen quiet , as shops have closed and communities — mostly — started to follow officials ’ advice to stay at home , more and more people have turned to Mr. Critchley , and others like him .
It is one less reason to venture outside , one way of avoiding snaking queues and empty shelves at supermarkets , at least one essential that can be guaranteed .
“ At the moment , it ’s just about managing , ” Mr. Critchley said .
He has been running the business — I.W. Critchley Son , in the northern city of Leeds — since he took over from his father , the founder , some 40 years ago .
“ It has been huge , ” he said .
“ We have had people calling up to ask for jobs .
Normally we ’d just say no .
Now we have to think , ‘ Do we need someone else ? ’ ”
The story is the same across the north of England .
Almost all milk delivery services contacted by The Times have placed notices on their websites or added voice - mail messages warning prospective customers about the high level of demand ; many have updated their Facebook pages to thank people for their patience .
Robert Orton , a milkman in Harrogate , North Yorkshire , has seen such a spike in interest that , reluctantly , he is having to turn away prospective customers .
“ I can only take new people if they live on streets that I already go down , ” he said .
“ Otherwise , I just ca n’t do it .
It ’s been mad . ”
For an industry that seemed , for a long time , to be edging toward irrelevance , it is a seismic shift .
Until recently , milkmen were seen as something between a luxury and a vestige of a forgotten past : something people had fond memories of as children , but not really necessary in the modern world .
Throughout the 1990s and early 2000s , customers dwindled in the face of aggressive price reductions on milk by supermarkets , driving many milkmen out of business altogether .
“ I had countless conversations with people who told me I would n’t be delivering milk much longer , ” Mr. Orton said .
“ Everyone could get their milk from the supermarket . ”

A choir group had 60 people show up for practice. Now 45 are sick. .
2020-03-26 22:19:22 +00:00 .
LEEDS , England — Suddenly , it seems , everyone wants a milkman .
The surge has been going on for a week or so , Peter Critchley said .
As the British government ’s measures to slow the coronavirus ’s spread have grown incrementally tighter , as towns and cities have fallen quiet , as shops have closed and communities — mostly — started to follow officials ’ advice to stay at home , more and more people have turned to Mr. Critchley , and others like him .
It is one less reason to venture outside , one way of avoiding snaking queues and empty shelves at supermarkets , at least one essential that can be guaranteed .
“ At the moment , it ’s just about managing , ” Mr. Critchley said .
He has been running the business — I.W. Critchley Son , in the northern city of Leeds — since he took over from his father , the founder , some 40 years ago .
“ It has been huge , ” he said .
“ We have had people calling up to ask for jobs .
Normally we ’d just say no .
Now we have to think , ‘ Do we need someone else ? ’ ”
The story is the same across the north of England .
Almost all milk delivery services contacted by The Times have placed notices on their websites or added voice - mail messages warning prospective customers about the high level of demand ; many have updated their Facebook pages to thank people for their patience .
Robert Orton , a milkman in Harrogate , North Yorkshire , has seen such a spike in interest that , reluctantly , he is having to turn away prospective customers .
“ I can only take new people if they live on streets that I already go down , ” he said .
“ Otherwise , I just ca n’t do it .
It ’s been mad . ”
For an industry that seemed , for a long time , to be edging toward irrelevance , it is a seismic shift .
Until recently , milkmen were seen as something between a luxury and a vestige of a forgotten past : something people had fond memories of as children , but not really necessary in the modern world .
Throughout the 1990s and early 2000s , customers dwindled in the face of aggressive price reductions on milk by supermarkets , driving many milkmen out of business altogether .
“ I had countless conversations with people who told me I would n’t be delivering milk much longer , ” Mr. Orton said .
“ Everyone could get their milk from the supermarket . ”

Looking for N95 masks? Check the burial vault. .
2020-03-26 22:03:58 +00:00 .
LEEDS , England — Suddenly , it seems , everyone wants a milkman .
The surge has been going on for a week or so , Peter Critchley said .
As the British government ’s measures to slow the coronavirus ’s spread have grown incrementally tighter , as towns and cities have fallen quiet , as shops have closed and communities — mostly — started to follow officials ’ advice to stay at home , more and more people have turned to Mr. Critchley , and others like him .
It is one less reason to venture outside , one way of avoiding snaking queues and empty shelves at supermarkets , at least one essential that can be guaranteed .
“ At the moment , it ’s just about managing , ” Mr. Critchley said .
He has been running the business — I.W. Critchley Son , in the northern city of Leeds — since he took over from his father , the founder , some 40 years ago .
“ It has been huge , ” he said .
“ We have had people calling up to ask for jobs .
Normally we ’d just say no .
Now we have to think , ‘ Do we need someone else ? ’ ”
The story is the same across the north of England .
Almost all milk delivery services contacted by The Times have placed notices on their websites or added voice - mail messages warning prospective customers about the high level of demand ; many have updated their Facebook pages to thank people for their patience .
Robert Orton , a milkman in Harrogate , North Yorkshire , has seen such a spike in interest that , reluctantly , he is having to turn away prospective customers .
“ I can only take new people if they live on streets that I already go down , ” he said .
“ Otherwise , I just ca n’t do it .
It ’s been mad . ”
For an industry that seemed , for a long time , to be edging toward irrelevance , it is a seismic shift .
Until recently , milkmen were seen as something between a luxury and a vestige of a forgotten past : something people had fond memories of as children , but not really necessary in the modern world .
Throughout the 1990s and early 2000s , customers dwindled in the face of aggressive price reductions on milk by supermarkets , driving many milkmen out of business altogether .
“ I had countless conversations with people who told me I would n’t be delivering milk much longer , ” Mr. Orton said .
“ Everyone could get their milk from the supermarket . ”

Milkmen in England embrace an influx of customers. .
2020-03-26 21:32:56 +00:00 .
LEEDS , England — Suddenly , it seems , everyone wants a milkman .
The surge has been going on for a week or so , Peter Critchley said .
As the British government ’s measures to slow the coronavirus ’s spread have grown incrementally tighter , as towns and cities have fallen quiet , as shops have closed and communities — mostly — started to follow officials ’ advice to stay at home , more and more people have turned to Mr. Critchley , and others like him .
It is one less reason to venture outside , one way of avoiding snaking queues and empty shelves at supermarkets , at least one essential that can be guaranteed .
“ At the moment , it ’s just about managing , ” Mr. Critchley said .
He has been running the business — I.W. Critchley Son , in the northern city of Leeds — since he took over from his father , the founder , some 40 years ago .
“ It has been huge , ” he said .
“ We have had people calling up to ask for jobs .
Normally we ’d just say no .
Now we have to think , ‘ Do we need someone else ? ’ ”
The story is the same across the north of England .
Almost all milk delivery services contacted by The Times have placed notices on their websites or added voice - mail messages warning prospective customers about the high level of demand ; many have updated their Facebook pages to thank people for their patience .
Robert Orton , a milkman in Harrogate , North Yorkshire , has seen such a spike in interest that , reluctantly , he is having to turn away prospective customers .
“ I can only take new people if they live on streets that I already go down , ” he said .
“ Otherwise , I just ca n’t do it .
It ’s been mad . ”
For an industry that seemed , for a long time , to be edging toward irrelevance , it is a seismic shift .
Until recently , milkmen were seen as something between a luxury and a vestige of a forgotten past : something people had fond memories of as children , but not really necessary in the modern world .
Throughout the 1990s and early 2000s , customers dwindled in the face of aggressive price reductions on milk by supermarkets , driving many milkmen out of business altogether .
“ I had countless conversations with people who told me I would n’t be delivering milk much longer , ” Mr. Orton said .
“ Everyone could get their milk from the supermarket . ”

New York City Ballet Cancels Its Season but Will Pay Employees .
2020-03-26 21:07:15 +00:00 .
New York City Ballet announced on Thursday that it was canceling its spring season because of the coronavirus pandemic , but the company plans to pay its dancers , musicians and other employees through May 31 , the date the season was to have ended .
The cancellation was expected , with museums shut down , theaters dark and cultural events of every kind on hold across the city .
The decision means delays for two world - premiere works , which will be postponed to another season .
City Ballet board members approved the plan on a Wednesday afternoon conference call , said Katherine E. Brown , the company ’s executive director .
The cancellation of the season — which was set to begin on April 21 — would mean a projected financial loss of about $ 8 million for the company by the end of this fiscal year , which includes lost revenue from a spring gala .
“ Because a dancer ’s career is so finite , losing a season like this is going to have a lasting impact on them , emotionally and physically , ” said Jonathan Stafford , the company ’s artistic director .
“ We ’re trying to do everything we can to support them off the stage . ”
The decision to pay employees will be a relief to 100 dancers and 62 musicians who already get by on inconsistent streams of income , based on when they are rehearsing and performing throughout the year .
For now , their payment schedule is the same as it would have been without the pandemic : They will be paid until the end of the spring season , and then will face a short layoff .
The employees who are to be paid and receive benefits through the dark season include the dancers , musicians , stagehands , costume designers , security personnel , ushers and administrators .
As of now , City Ballet is planning to move forward with its smaller scale summer performances and the rehearsals leading up to them , though that is subject to change based on developments in the public health crisis .
Dancers are scheduled to perform at Bard SummerScape festival at the end of June and at the Dancers ’ Workshop in Jackson , Wyo . , in July .
City Ballet ’s spring season was to have included world premieres by Pam Tanowitz , who was commissioned to create her second work for the company ; and Jamar Roberts , the resident choreographer for Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater .
The new premiere dates have not yet been decided .
Many of the programs were to feature works created by choreographers in the 21st century , though there were still programs dedicated to the work of its founding choreographer , George Balanchine , including a run of “ A Midsummer Night ’s Dream . ”
Patrons who already purchased City Ballet tickets will be able to get refunds , save the value of the ticket for a future purchase or donate all or part of the money to a relief fund that is being set up to support the company .
Part of the City Ballet ’s projected financial loss comes from its management of the David H. Koch Theater .
The cancellation of other events at the theater , including Shen Yun Performing Arts shows and the Youth America Grand Prix ballet competition , have resulted in a loss of rent payments to City Ballet .
Ballet companies across the country have been grappling with the consequences of canceled programming .
American Ballet Theater , which canceled touring shows in four cities because of the pandemic , started its own relief fund to help pay employees like its dancers , production crew , rehearsal pianists and ballet masters .

As Crisis Unfolds, Sanders Sees a Moment That Matches His Ideas .
2020-03-26 20:10:42 +00:00 .
Mr. Sanders has appeared eager to put himself front and center for his supporters , holding live stream events on the virus nearly every night and pushing out a long list of policy proposals to handle the outbreak that included providing every American with a check for $ 2,000 a month .
In a sign of his political influence , he threatened on Wednesday afternoon to hold up the economic stimulus bill if Republicans continued to fight unemployment benefits that they feared would be larger than some people ’s wages — the reason for his sarcastic denunciations in the Senate chamber .
“ While we do our best to address these crises , it is extremely important that we try to understand how we got to where we are today , and the need to bring about fundamental reform of American society , ” Mr. Sanders said during a live stream event on Wednesday night , after running viewers through major elements of the stimulus bill .
Many of his supporters are still holding out faint hope that he can win the nomination , arguing that the coronavirus outbreak has made even unlikely scenarios possible .
Already , many states have pushed their primaries back to June 2 , making it impossible for Mr. Biden to clinch the nomination before then .
There are murmurs among some allies that Mr. Sanders intends to stay in at least until the primary in New York , which is scheduled for April 28 but is contemplating pushing its election to June 23 .
Some want him to stay in the race indefinitely because his candidacy provides him the megaphone to shape the narrative of the progressive agenda , and will give him leverage as he seeks policy concessions from Mr. Biden and influence over the party ’s platform .
Some close to him suggested that his coronavirus outreach was a way to keep his supporters motivated and engaged during this strange time of suspended animation , so that the campaign can jump - start them into action if he decides to rev his candidacy back up .
His detractors , however , point out that he has chosen to hold his own events and speak to his own supporters but until Wednesday had largely left the congressional proceedings to others — including his former rival , Senator Elizabeth Warren , who was active in helping to shape the rescue bill .
On Sunday , when fellow Senate Democrats blocked an action on the bill that delayed progress , he skipped the vote , instead remaining in Burlington to air a live stream with Representatives Alexandria Ocasio - Cortez , Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib .

Art Basel Shifts to September Amid Coronavirus Concerns .
2020-03-26 19:09:21 +00:00 .
Art Basel , the centerpiece of Europe ’s summer art market calendar , has postponed its June edition in Switzerland until September as a result of the coronavirus pandemic .
Health concerns permitting , the 50th Art Basel will now take place Sept. 17 - 20 , with preview days on Sept. 15 - 16 .
More than 280 galleries from 35 countries are slated to participate .
“ We thank our galleries for the support and understanding of our highly complex decision to postpone the fair , ” Marc Spiegler , global director of Art Basel , said in a statement Thursday .
“ We hope that the situation improves swiftly , and we will work closely with our exhibitors to deliver a successful fair in September . ”
The event will now take place just two weeks before Frieze London , Europe ’s other main destination contemporary art fair , and four weeks before FIAC in Paris .
“ We all expected it , ” said Richard Nagy , a London - based Art Basel exhibitor .
“ It ’s hard to tell if it ’s the right thing to do .
There are going to be a lot of people hurting by then . ”
The fair , would provide a much - needed injection of revenue for Art Basel ’s beleagured Swiss - based parent company MCH , whose finances have been hurting in recent months .
Exhibitor and attendance numbers have been declining at its flagship Baselworld watch fair , the company ’s main income - earner , and in February MCH postponed the edition scheduled for April 30 , because of the pandemic .
( Bulgari and other watch brands are organizing a rival event . )
Art Basel Hong Kong , Asia ’s biggest international art fair , was also canceled last month .
The event , which takes place in March , transferred to a digital platform , with online viewing rooms .
Exhibitors were typically charged only 25 percent of their booth fee for participating in the fair .
On Thursday , shares in MCH Group AG were priced at 13.40 francs on the SIX Swiss stock exchange , a decline of 55 percent of the stock ’s price in December .
The pandemic has effectively shut down the bricks - and - mortar art trade .
Frieze New York , Art Cologne and Masterpiece London fairs are among the raft of significant events to have been canceled or postponed .
Hundreds of galleries have either temporarily closed or reverted to “ by appointment only ” arrangements .
They are struggling to do business as best they can through digital platforms .
“ It ’s hard to sell anything online at the moment other than new works by blue - chip contemporary artists , ” said Fergus McCaffrey , a New York - based gallerist who is a regular Art Basel exhibitor .
He described his sales from Art Basel Hong Kong ’s online rooms as “ very modest . ”
“ But September is a pretty open moment ; it could work , but people are going to be very cautious , ” Mr. McCaffrey said .
Art dealers have become increasingly dependent on fairs , which in 2019 contributed about 45 percent of the value of their sales , according to the latest annual Art Basel UBS Art Market Report .
In 2010 they contributed 30 percent of equivalent sales , according to the report .
Dealers have also pointed out that the fair ’s final days coincide with Rosh Hashana ( Sept. 18 - 20 ) , which is likely to be a complication for some visitors and exhibitors .
But others are just enthused by the prospect of Europe ’s art market coming to life again .
“ The postponement is very sensible , ” said Philip Hoffman , founder and chief executive of the Fine Art Group , a London - based consultancy .
“ It ’s an awful time for the art trade , ” Mr. Hoffman added .
“ By then clients will want to spend money . ”

A Brooklyn hospital faces the challenges of fighting the virus. .
2020-03-26 18:33:18 +00:00 .
I was on a work call last week when I first heard her wails .
I peeked out the window next to my desk and saw my 5 - year - old splayed across our driveway , next to her bike , screaming .
Then , I saw my 8 - year - old help her stand up .
I texted my husband : “ I think she ’s hurt . ”
Two minutes later , he was carrying my daughter inside .
When I came downstairs , I realized it was bad .
I felt terrible that I had n’t run outside immediately .
My daughter was shaking , and the bandage across her forehead was dripping with blood .
Welcome to my worst nightmare .
This all happened on the third Friday of March , eight days after my husband and I had pulled our children out of school before it closed because of the new coronavirus .
We had been taking the outbreak seriously ; we had n’t been to a grocery store in six days .
So a hospital or doctor ’s office was absolutely the last place we wanted to go .
First , we made a telemedicine appointment .
“ Oh , that definitely needs stitches , ” the doctor said immediately after I peeled back the dripping bandage .
I drove my daughter to an emergency room at a children ’s hospital in Westchester County , N.Y. — just 17 miles from the ongoing coronavirus outbreak in New Rochelle — and told her not to touch anything .
Still , within the first five minutes , I used hand sanitizer seven times .
It ’s a tough time for everyone right now .
But parents have to be superheroes .
Many of us are expected to do several jobs at once — follow the news , cook family meals , stay calm , care for our kids and teach algebra .
So kids are doing what kids do when they can get away with it : Climbing on things they should n’t be climbing on , riding bikes without helmets , doing somersaults on the backyard trampoline , throwing dangerous objects at their siblings ’ heads .
“ You ca n’t work and provide adequate supervision , especially for younger kids — so something ’s got to give , ” said Dr. Benjamin Hoffman , M.D. , a professor of pediatrics at Oregon Health Science University School of Medicine and chair of the American Academy of Pediatrics ’ Council on Injury , Violence and Poison Prevention .
That could be a broken arm , a twisted ankle or , in my daughter ’s case , an inch - long cut to the forehead .
When I called Dr. Hoffman on the afternoon on March 23 , he had just finished treating a child who had been injured while wrestling at home .

Donald Judd’s Plain-Spoken Masterpiece .
2020-03-26 18:23:13 +00:00 .
Donald Judd ’s large , untitled installation piece in unfinished plywood at Gagosian Gallery is a plain - spoken giant that , surprisingly , has quite a bit to say .
In its complexity and openness , it seems like almost nothing else Judd ( 1928 - 1994 ) ever made , and it has n’t been seen in New York since 1981 , when it debuted at the Castelli Gallery in Soho a year after its completion .
I remember being stupefied by it then .
Reviewing it for the Village Voice , I called it a masterpiece almost in self - defense .
Seeing it again , before the coronavirus pandemic shut the gallery , I can say it ’s definitely a masterpiece , and also a pivot .
It sums up both the wall and floor pieces from the first two decades of Judd ’s three - dimensional work , while turning toward his more expansive later works .
A prime example of these is the large multicolored piece that dominates the final gallery of “ Judd , ” the superbly selected and installed retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art — a show that I think would have pleased Judd , who was no friend of museums .
The work at Gagosian is a big grid of 30 rectilinear volumes , each measuring 4 by 8 by 4 feet and arranged in three horizontal rows of 10 ; or , conversely , 10 vertical stacks of three .
The whole thing is made of standard sheets of Douglas fir plywood .
Each unit is partitioned to some degree by an additional plane or by two parallel ones ; all slant diagonally down and inward , but at different angles .
Some connect to the back of the unit , others to the bottom , alternately suggesting slanted ceilings or eccentric garage doors .
Stretching in total 80 feet across and 12 feet up the longest wall at Gagosian , the result is arguably the most communicative , extravagantly available work of Judd ’s career : a great flutter of planes , volumes and edges — the cardinal components of Judd ’s language — and shifts in light and shadow .
The six images on the Gagosian site provide plenty to look at .
Flavin Judd , the artist ’s son , has compared it to a Bach fugue .
One fuguelike aspect is the variations in the cutting of the laminated edges of the plywood partitions .
As the diagonal sheets slant closer to the front of the piece , their upper edges are cut at ever sharper angles until they and their laminations spread out , nearly tripling in width — offering a second measure of the planes ’ steepness .
The piece is a big , magnanimous puzzle and an exercise in vision - sharpening comparative looking .
Where Judd usually prided himself on pieces that the viewer comprehended by circumnavigating , here we are limited to a single side but granted a surfeit of information to sort through .
You may seize on clusters of repeating elements , both horizontal and vertical , as signs of an overriding system .
But as you proceed , comparing volumes , edges and angles , rehearsing Judd ’s decisions and their effects , you gradually realize that almost none of the volumes repeat exactly .
The system is open - ended .
Judd ’s midway masterpiece has the beauty and clarity of full disclosure .
From the first instant it puts everything up front .
As is not always the case with his work , the process of self - enlightenment it stimulates may make you feel smarter than you thought you were .
And of course , you are .
Donald Judd
Through April 11 at Gagosian ; gagosian.com .

6 Die as Coronavirus Races Through Upscale Retirement Community in N.Y. .
2020-03-26 17:16:09 +00:00 .
After the first diagnosis on March 10 , the facility management identified people who had worked near the sick employee and sent them home .
A day later it encouraged visitors to stay away .
But the virus was already starting to spread .
People who are infected with Covid-19 can transmit it even before they develop symptoms or know they have the disease .
Mr. Bellone said it was likely that the virus was present in the area long before testing began , “ some weeks , at least . ”
In a statement , he added , “ We have seen evidence that there are likely hundreds , if not thousands , of residents who have already contracted the virus , self - resolved and are back to full health without even knowing it . ”
During that time , though , they could have passed the disease to others .
On March 12 , two more employees tested positive .
By March 17 , the virus had spread to the residents , though all were described as being in stable condition .
The next day came the first death , a 96 - year - old woman in the skilled nursing unit , then three more in the following three days , bringing the total to four , with 13 more testing positive .
The fifth death was a retired Latin teacher named Robert Greenberger , 88 , whose son , Jeff , named him in an obituary submitted to The Suffolk Times , writing that he and his wife had last visited about a month ago , and that both were healthy .
“ We are staying tucked at home , as we hope all of you are able to do , too ! ”
they wrote .
The sixth death , an 88 - year - old man , came on Tuesday , the 24th .
At least 12 residents and 13 employees are confirmed to have the virus .
The deaths have shaken the cozy town of Greenport , a mixed community that includes high - end summer visitors and blue collar locals , said Dave Kapell , a former mayor of the town .
Stores , other than the IGA supermarket , are largely closed , and the streets , always slow in March , are mostly empty .
“ Downtown is a ghost town , ” Mr. Kapell said .
“ It ’s surreal .
It ’s very somber .
And there ’s not much an average person like me can do , because of the restraint on movement .
You ca n’t volunteer .
I feel helpless . ”

GoFundMe faces a surge in fund-raising campaigns. .
2020-03-26 17:00:50 +00:00 .
I was on a work call last week when I first heard her wails .
I peeked out the window next to my desk and saw my 5 - year - old splayed across our driveway , next to her bike , screaming .
Then , I saw my 8 - year - old help her stand up .
I texted my husband : “ I think she ’s hurt . ”
Two minutes later , he was carrying my daughter inside .
When I came downstairs , I realized it was bad .
I felt terrible that I had n’t run outside immediately .
My daughter was shaking , and the bandage across her forehead was dripping with blood .
Welcome to my worst nightmare .
This all happened on the third Friday of March , eight days after my husband and I had pulled our children out of school before it closed because of the new coronavirus .
We had been taking the outbreak seriously ; we had n’t been to a grocery store in six days .
So a hospital or doctor ’s office was absolutely the last place we wanted to go .
First , we made a telemedicine appointment .
“ Oh , that definitely needs stitches , ” the doctor said immediately after I peeled back the dripping bandage .
I drove my daughter to an emergency room at a children ’s hospital in Westchester County , N.Y. — just 17 miles from the ongoing coronavirus outbreak in New Rochelle — and told her not to touch anything .
Still , within the first five minutes , I used hand sanitizer seven times .
It ’s a tough time for everyone right now .
But parents have to be superheroes .
Many of us are expected to do several jobs at once — follow the news , cook family meals , stay calm , care for our kids and teach algebra .
So kids are doing what kids do when they can get away with it : Climbing on things they should n’t be climbing on , riding bikes without helmets , doing somersaults on the backyard trampoline , throwing dangerous objects at their siblings ’ heads .
“ You ca n’t work and provide adequate supervision , especially for younger kids — so something ’s got to give , ” said Dr. Benjamin Hoffman , M.D. , a professor of pediatrics at Oregon Health Science University School of Medicine and chair of the American Academy of Pediatrics ’ Council on Injury , Violence and Poison Prevention .
That could be a broken arm , a twisted ankle or , in my daughter ’s case , an inch - long cut to the forehead .
When I called Dr. Hoffman on the afternoon on March 23 , he had just finished treating a child who had been injured while wrestling at home .

Empty airplanes are becoming the go-to visual of a crisis. .
2020-03-26 16:55:40 +00:00 .
I was on a work call last week when I first heard her wails .
I peeked out the window next to my desk and saw my 5 - year - old splayed across our driveway , next to her bike , screaming .
Then , I saw my 8 - year - old help her stand up .
I texted my husband : “ I think she ’s hurt . ”
Two minutes later , he was carrying my daughter inside .
When I came downstairs , I realized it was bad .
I felt terrible that I had n’t run outside immediately .
My daughter was shaking , and the bandage across her forehead was dripping with blood .
Welcome to my worst nightmare .
This all happened on the third Friday of March , eight days after my husband and I had pulled our children out of school before it closed because of the new coronavirus .
We had been taking the outbreak seriously ; we had n’t been to a grocery store in six days .
So a hospital or doctor ’s office was absolutely the last place we wanted to go .
First , we made a telemedicine appointment .
“ Oh , that definitely needs stitches , ” the doctor said immediately after I peeled back the dripping bandage .
I drove my daughter to an emergency room at a children ’s hospital in Westchester County , N.Y. — just 17 miles from the ongoing coronavirus outbreak in New Rochelle — and told her not to touch anything .
Still , within the first five minutes , I used hand sanitizer seven times .
It ’s a tough time for everyone right now .
But parents have to be superheroes .
Many of us are expected to do several jobs at once — follow the news , cook family meals , stay calm , care for our kids and teach algebra .
So kids are doing what kids do when they can get away with it : Climbing on things they should n’t be climbing on , riding bikes without helmets , doing somersaults on the backyard trampoline , throwing dangerous objects at their siblings ’ heads .
“ You ca n’t work and provide adequate supervision , especially for younger kids — so something ’s got to give , ” said Dr. Benjamin Hoffman , M.D. , a professor of pediatrics at Oregon Health Science University School of Medicine and chair of the American Academy of Pediatrics ’ Council on Injury , Violence and Poison Prevention .
That could be a broken arm , a twisted ankle or , in my daughter ’s case , an inch - long cut to the forehead .
When I called Dr. Hoffman on the afternoon on March 23 , he had just finished treating a child who had been injured while wrestling at home .

With some D.M.V.s closed, the deadline for REAL-ID has been extended. .
2020-03-26 16:50:32 +00:00 .
I was on a work call last week when I first heard her wails .
I peeked out the window next to my desk and saw my 5 - year - old splayed across our driveway , next to her bike , screaming .
Then , I saw my 8 - year - old help her stand up .
I texted my husband : “ I think she ’s hurt . ”
Two minutes later , he was carrying my daughter inside .
When I came downstairs , I realized it was bad .
I felt terrible that I had n’t run outside immediately .
My daughter was shaking , and the bandage across her forehead was dripping with blood .
Welcome to my worst nightmare .
This all happened on the third Friday of March , eight days after my husband and I had pulled our children out of school before it closed because of the new coronavirus .
We had been taking the outbreak seriously ; we had n’t been to a grocery store in six days .
So a hospital or doctor ’s office was absolutely the last place we wanted to go .
First , we made a telemedicine appointment .
“ Oh , that definitely needs stitches , ” the doctor said immediately after I peeled back the dripping bandage .
I drove my daughter to an emergency room at a children ’s hospital in Westchester County , N.Y. — just 17 miles from the ongoing coronavirus outbreak in New Rochelle — and told her not to touch anything .
Still , within the first five minutes , I used hand sanitizer seven times .
It ’s a tough time for everyone right now .
But parents have to be superheroes .
Many of us are expected to do several jobs at once — follow the news , cook family meals , stay calm , care for our kids and teach algebra .
So kids are doing what kids do when they can get away with it : Climbing on things they should n’t be climbing on , riding bikes without helmets , doing somersaults on the backyard trampoline , throwing dangerous objects at their siblings ’ heads .
“ You ca n’t work and provide adequate supervision , especially for younger kids — so something ’s got to give , ” said Dr. Benjamin Hoffman , M.D. , a professor of pediatrics at Oregon Health Science University School of Medicine and chair of the American Academy of Pediatrics ’ Council on Injury , Violence and Poison Prevention .
That could be a broken arm , a twisted ankle or , in my daughter ’s case , an inch - long cut to the forehead .
When I called Dr. Hoffman on the afternoon on March 23 , he had just finished treating a child who had been injured while wrestling at home .

Busy parents and kids stuck at home: A recipe for injuries. .
2020-03-26 16:03:55 +00:00 .
I was on a work call last week when I first heard her wails .
I peeked out the window next to my desk and saw my 5 - year - old splayed across our driveway , next to her bike , screaming .
Then , I saw my 8 - year - old help her stand up .
I texted my husband : “ I think she ’s hurt . ”
Two minutes later , he was carrying my daughter inside .
When I came downstairs , I realized it was bad .
I felt terrible that I had n’t run outside immediately .
My daughter was shaking , and the bandage across her forehead was dripping with blood .
Welcome to my worst nightmare .
This all happened on the third Friday of March , eight days after my husband and I had pulled our children out of school before it closed because of the new coronavirus .
We had been taking the outbreak seriously ; we had n’t been to a grocery store in six days .
So a hospital or doctor ’s office was absolutely the last place we wanted to go .
First , we made a telemedicine appointment .
“ Oh , that definitely needs stitches , ” the doctor said immediately after I peeled back the dripping bandage .
I drove my daughter to an emergency room at a children ’s hospital in Westchester County , N.Y. — just 17 miles from the ongoing coronavirus outbreak in New Rochelle — and told her not to touch anything .
Still , within the first five minutes , I used hand sanitizer seven times .
It ’s a tough time for everyone right now .
But parents have to be superheroes .
Many of us are expected to do several jobs at once — follow the news , cook family meals , stay calm , care for our kids and teach algebra .
So kids are doing what kids do when they can get away with it : Climbing on things they should n’t be climbing on , riding bikes without helmets , doing somersaults on the backyard trampoline , throwing dangerous objects at their siblings ’ heads .
“ You ca n’t work and provide adequate supervision , especially for younger kids — so something ’s got to give , ” said Dr. Benjamin Hoffman , M.D. , a professor of pediatrics at Oregon Health Science University School of Medicine and chair of the American Academy of Pediatrics ’ Council on Injury , Violence and Poison Prevention .
That could be a broken arm , a twisted ankle or , in my daughter ’s case , an inch - long cut to the forehead .
When I called Dr. Hoffman on the afternoon on March 23 , he had just finished treating a child who had been injured while wrestling at home .

Coronavirus Impact: How a Crisis Is Changing the U.S. .
2020-03-26 00:01:16 +00:00 .
March 25 , 2020 , 8:00 p.m. ET
March 25 , 2020 , 8:00 p.m. ETBy John Herrman “ I ’m 84 years old , so staying confined to the house for protection , ” wrote Marcia Savin , a children ’s book author and teacher who lives alone in the Cobble Hill section of Brooklyn , on the neighborhood social networking app Nextdoor .
Before the virus , Nextdoor was , to most users , something between a hyperlocal Facebook and an updated version of Craigslist .
In recent weeks , however , some New Yorkers , many isolated and under quarantine , have logged on , many for the first time , with a focused and urgent set of questions .
Last week , Nextdoor told CNN that engagement had nearly doubled .
In Ms. Savin ’s neighborhood , the posts read like a diary of a neighborhood on lockdown .
It was Saturday , March 21 .
Ms. Savin ’s prescriptions were ready at a local pharmacy , she said , but she could n’t pick them up “ because I ’m not leaving the house and they have stopped answering phone . ”
Soon , she said , she received five offers to help .
“ None of them were people I know , ” Ms. Savin said in a phone interview on Tuesday .
“ It ’s been quite heartening . ”
So far , Laura Weiland , 32 , has made two drop - offs at Ms. Savin ’s home .
Their interactions are simultaneously neighborly and distant .
“ I ’m completely confined , ” Ms. Savin said .
She does n’t open the front door .
“ I see the person , I flip the check through the mail slot , I tell her to leave the supplies and I drag them in , ” she said .
Now she has her medicine , and her fridge is full .
She is grateful to Ms. Weiland , whom she has never met without a phone , screen or door between them .
Ms. Weiland , a marketing professional , described her neighbor as “ lovely . ”
In New York , where millions of people are living under some of the country ’s strictest rules , users have been posting as they see fit , unsure , as in so many other things , what a local social network is for .
Nextdoor has added new features to the platform , including a map to which neighbors wishing to help can add their location and volunteering abilities , seizing a moment when neighborliness is both necessary and necessarily mediated .
There are still relics of Nextdoor 1.0 : complaints about discourteous runners , unverified rumors about what the city may do next and full - on conspiracy theories .
But Nextdoor was not built to be a disaster - relief platform .
Its most vital role may be in directing people to organizations and networks best suited to respond to needs as the city weighs guidelines for safely helping neighbors .
Shira Milikowsky , 38 , who lives near Ms. Weiland , posted her own offer to help on Nextdoor .
There she found a small army of others nearby who were also looking for ways to chip in .
“ It was people saying , ‘ me too , me too , me too , ’ ” she said .
Nextdoor has also continued to function in another way : as an object of bewilderment and humor .
Jenn Takahashi , 31 , a tech worker in San Francisco who runs @bestofnextdoor , a Twitter account that collects strange , shocking and whimsical posts from the platform , has n’t been too surprised by what has been sent her way .
A few residents of Minneapolis circulated a call to get together and sing from their front porches , inspired by videos of quarantined Italians singing from their balconies .
One later shared the experience , which was then shared with Ms. Takahashi .
“ I guess a bunch of people sang last night , and I tried it tonight , ” the poster wrote .
“ I was the only one on my block but it still felt really good , and just a little bit embarrassing . ”
Read more

Floyd Cardoz, 59, Dies; Gave American Fine Dining an Indian Flavor .
2020-03-25 20:35:57 +00:00 .
Floyd Cardoz , an international restaurateur and the first chef to bring the sweep and balance of his native Indian cooking to fine dining in the United States , died on Tuesday at Mountainside Hospital in Montclair , N.J.
He was 59 .
The cause was the coronavirus , his family said .
Mr. Cardoz was the first chef born and raised in India to lead an influential New York City kitchen , at Tabla , which he and the restaurateur Danny Meyer opened in the Flatiron district of Manhattan in 1998 .
Soon after , Ruth Reichl of The New York Times gave Mr. Cardoz ’s cooking a rapturous review .
“ Yes , I thought .
This is what I have been waiting for , ” she wrote .
“ This is American food , viewed through a kaleidoscope of Indian spices . ”
Before opening Tabla , Mr. Cardoz cooked at the luxurious New York restaurant Lespinasse , where he rose from line cook to executive sous - chef under the Swiss chef Gray Kunz .
( Mr. Kunz died in February . )
Mr. Kunz , like many chefs who participated in the revolution in French cooking known as nouvelle cuisine , was already occasionally deploying Asian ingredients like ginger , cardamom and star anise , but at Tabla , Mr. Cardoz summoned a fully Indian - American modern cuisine with dishes like halibut in watermelon curry and spice - braised oxtails with tapioca .
The Atlanta - based chef Asha Gomez said Mr. Cardoz ’s work at Tabla inspired her culinary career and those of many other Indian - American chefs .
“ I remember walking into that restaurant and feeling this sense of pride that I had never felt as an Indian , ” she said .
“ To see what he had done to elevate Indian cuisine to the likes of French cuisine — because it deserves to be in that same light — was at the time mind - blowing to me . ”
Floyd Mark Cardoz was born in Mumbai , India , on Oct. 2 , 1960 , and grew up there .
He pursued a culinary career at a time when such a course was unusual in India for a young professional , especially one who had studied biochemistry .
He met his wife , Barkha , when they were both students at hospitality school in Mumbai , then worked for the prestigious Taj Group of hotels .
He went on to study European haute cuisine in Switzerland , and the couple emigrated to the United States in 1988 .
His partner at Tabla , Mr. Meyer , said on Wednesday that Mr. Cardoz ’s perseverance kept the vision of Indian - American fine dining intact when doubters and some early reviews were negative , often complaining that the food was either too Indian or not Indian enough .
“ He was a super - taster , big - hearted , stubborn as the day is long , ” Mr. Meyer said in a statement .
“ He never once lost his sense of love for those he ’d worked with , mentored and mattered to . ”
After Tabla closed in 2010 , Mr. Cardoz went on to head the kitchens at North End Grill , in Battery Park City ; at White Street , in TriBeCa ; and at Paowalla , in SoHo , which became Bombay Bread Bar .
All are now closed .
His 2016 cookbook , “ Flavorwalla , ” adapted his cooking style for American home cooks .
After winning the culinary competition television show “ Top Chef Masters ” in 2012 with a variation on upma , a South Indian breakfast staple , Mr. Cardoz became a celebrity son of India .
In Mumbai , he opened the Bombay Canteen and O Pedro , a restaurant influenced by his family ’s Portuguese roots in Goa .
This month , he visited the city to attend an anniversary party for Bombay Canteen and to oversee the opening of his Bombay Sweet Sho .
On Instagram , he wrote that he had become ill soon after returning home to Roseland , N.J. , on March 8 .
He is survived by his wife ; his sons , Peter and Justin ; his mother , Beryl Cardoz ; and five siblings .
Priya Krishna contributed reporting .

What if I Can’t Pay My Rent Now? .
2020-03-25 19:44:16 +00:00 .
Q : My partner and I are freelancers in creative fields .
We suddenly have no work or income because the response to the coronavirus has effectively shut down our industries .
The rent is due on our Brooklyn market - rate apartment on April 1 and if we pay it , we will rapidly deplete our very modest savings .
What are we supposed to do ?
A : A survey published on March 23 by the CUNY Graduate School of Public Health and Health Policy found that 29 percent of New York City residents had at least one member of their household lose a job because of the coronavirus pandemic in the previous two weeks .
In a city where two - thirds of residents rent , the sudden spike in unemployment will have an enormous and immediate impact on households that have to pay the rent April 1 .
For now , New Yorkers can not get evicted if they do n’t pay their rent .
On March 20 , Gov. Andrew Cuomo implemented a 90 - day moratorium on evictions for residential and commercial tenants , a day after he suspended mortgage payments for three months for homeowners in financial distress .
Because holdover and nonpayment proceedings are not considered emergencies , landlords can not even file such cases in housing court until April 19 , at the earliest .
So if you are facing a choice between paying for food and paying the rent , know that you will not lose your apartment for nonpayment , for the time being .
But what happens when the moratorium ends ?
It ’s an open question .
“ Hopefully we ’ll figure that out , ” said Andrea Shapiro , a program manager at the Met Council on Housing , a tenant advocacy group that is calling for rent suspension and rent forgiveness legislation .
“ Do n’t panic .
You ’ll have an apartment to stay in during the course of this crisis . ”
State Senator Michael Gianaris , a Democrat from Queens who serves as deputy majority leader , has introduced legislation calling for a three - month rent suspension for commercial and residential tenants impacted by the virus , much like the governor ’s mortgage moratorium .
“ People have lost their employment through no fault of their own , but still have a massive financial obligation in the form of rent , ” he said .
“ If people are not getting paid , we ca n’t expect them to pay rent . ”
On a WNYC call - in show with Brian Lehrer , Mayor Bill de Blasio said , “ I will pursue the rent moratorium immediately and see if it ’s something the city can do or if we have to get the state to do it . ”
If a deal is reached , it may include guidelines for how much rent , if any , you would owe at the end of this period , and how you would be expected to pay it .
Without government intervention , however , you ’d likely have to work out these details with your landlord , either privately or in housing court .
“ Down the road , when the crisis abates , the landlord could bring you in for nonpayment of rent , ” said Samuel J. Himmelstein , a lawyer who represents tenants .
“ What generally happens in housing court is people enter into payment plans . ”
For additional advice and support , contact organizations like the Met Council on Housing hotline at 212 - 979 - 0611 or Legal Services NYC at 917 - 661 - 4500 .
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news , sign up here .
Follow us on Twitter : @nytrealestate .

Mets’ Noah Syndergaard Will Have Tommy John Surgery .
2020-03-25 00:07:39 +00:00 .
Shortly after his last start before spring training was shut down , Mets pitcher Noah Syndergaard was excited to review data from the team ’s new motion - capture technology to hone his preparation routine .
“ We ’re just kind of scratching the surface on what it ’s really capable of , ” he said .
Syndergaard , 27 , will have plenty of time to review that feedback before he takes the mound again .
On Tuesday , the team announced that Syndergaard ’s right elbow needed ulnar collateral ligament reconstruction — better known as Tommy John surgery .
Dr. David Altchek , the team ’s medical director , will perform the surgery on Thursday at the Hospital for Special Surgery in West Palm Beach , Fla.
The coronavirus pandemic has led many hospitals to cancel elective surgeries in preparation for a surge of patients , and Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida last week issued an order prohibiting any “ medically unnecessary , non - urgent or nonemergency procedure ” in the state .
A spokeswoman for the Hospital for Special Surgery , Tracy Hickenbottom , said in an email that Syndergaard ’s operation was defined as essential care and could proceed as planned .
So while the 2020 M.L.B. season remains in limbo because of the spread of the coronavirus , one thing appears certain : Syndergaard will not play this year .
At the earliest , he is expected back with the Mets in the middle of the 2021 campaign .
He is under contract through that season , after which he will be eligible for free agency .
Mets General Manager Brodie Van Wagenen said Syndergaard had been experiencing discomfort in his elbow before the end of spring training activities , and that the pitcher had been in constant contact with the training staff from that point .
After symptoms persisted , Syndergaard received a physical examination , and a magnetic resonance imaging exam revealed the ligament tear .
A second opinion from Dr. Neal ElAttrache confirmed the diagnosis and need for surgery .
“ Noah is an incredibly hard worker and a tremendous talent , ” Van Wagenen said in a statement released by the team .
“ While this is unfortunate , we have no doubt that Noah will be able to return to full strength and continue to be an integral part of our championship pursuits in the future . ”
Syndergaard ’s absence opens a spot in the starting rotation for Steven Matz or Michael Wacha , the two pitchers who had been in camp battling for the fifth starter role .
Jacob deGrom , the two - time defending Cy Young Award winner , remains as the headliner of the starting rotation , which also includes Marcus Stroman and Rick Porcello , who won the American League ’s Cy Young Award in 2016 .
The Mets acquired Syndergaard in December 2012 when they traded pitcher R.A. Dickey to Toronto .
Syndergaard placed fourth in the 2015 National League Rookie of the Year voting , and then posted a 14 - 9 record with a 2.60 E.R.A. the next season .
But he has struggled to regain his form recently .
Last year , he could not control his slider and he said that the ball sometimes felt like an ice cube in his fingers .
His 4.28 E.R.A. was the worst of his career .
In 119 career outings , he has gone 47 - 30 with a 3.31 E.R.A. Syndergaard , whose nickname is Thor and who is known for his muscular physique , is no stranger to the injured list .
In 2018 , he missed time with a strained ligament in his right index finger before he learned that he had hand , foot and mouth disease , an infection that usually affects children under 5 years old .

Bernie Sanders Plans to Participate in Next Debate, Campaign Says .
2020-03-24 21:22:10 +00:00 .
Senator Bernie Sanders plans to participate in the Democratic presidential debate in April if one is held , his campaign said on Tuesday , the strongest indication yet that he plans to continue competing against Joseph R. Biden Jr. in the 2020 primary for the foreseeable future .
The Democratic National Committee has said previously that there would be a debate in April , but one has not been scheduled .
The committee has not announced a media partner or a site host — critical elements that are typically agreed upon at least a month in advance .
The coronavirus crisis has already upended most facets of the Democratic primary , and there is no guarantee that the debate will take place .
Still , the fact that the Sanders campaign is signaling , for now , that he would be on a debate stage in April is a strikingly public sign of the Vermont senator ’s determination to wield political influence and challenge Mr. Biden for primacy despite the former vice president ’s nearly insurmountable delegate lead .
“ Senator Sanders is still running for president , ” said Mike Casca , a top campaign official .
“ If there is a debate in April , he plans to be there . ”
Before the coronavirus outbreak effectively put the primary race on hold — most upcoming primaries have been moved to later dates and neither Mr. Sanders nor Mr. Biden is holding any in - person campaign events — Mr. Sanders had soundly lost a string of primary races beginning with South Carolina and continuing through last Tuesday , when he lost contests in Arizona , Florida and Illinois .
Mr. Biden ’s decisive victories , and his ability to attract so many demographic groups , have left Mr. Sanders with no realistic path to the nomination .
After Mr. Sanders ’s losses last week , his campaign manager said the Vermont senator would “ assess his campaign , ” and Mr. Sanders has shifted his focus since then to the virus .
He has not made any announcements about his campaign ’s future , and snapped last week at a reporter who asked about his plans .
During an interview on MSNBC on Monday night , he said his campaign was “ kind of moving day by day . ”
The Democratic National Committee has not set a media partner , a venue or a date for the party ’s final planned debate , nor has it release qualification criteria to participate .
Xochitl Hinojosa , a D.N.C. spokeswoman , declined to say whether a debate would still take place in April as planned or move later in the calendar to follow primary contests from several states that have switched from April to June .
The Biden campaign declined to comment .
Mr. Sanders and Mr. Biden met in their first one - on - one debate just over a week ago , a forum that was moved from Arizona to Washington , D.C. , because of travel concerns related to the coronavirus , and held in a CNN studio with no live audience .
Nine states and the District of Columbia now plan to hold primaries on June 2 , making it the day with the second - largest delegate haul on Democrats ’ presidential primary calendar , after Super Tuesday , when California and Texas voted .
Mr. Biden can not officially clinch the presidential nomination before June 2 , even if he were to win all of the delegates from all of the states and territories voting before then .
And some of the states with contests scheduled in April and May are contemplating moving back on the calendar .
Elections officials in New York and Pennsylvania , with April 28 contests , have said they will seek to delay their primaries .
Katie Glueck contributed reporting .

Coronavirus Patients in Limbo as Gilead Suspends Emergency Drug Access .
2020-03-24 14:55:45 +00:00 .
The company has said that it has a limited supply of remdesivir , but that it is increasing production .
It is also drawing on a stockpile Gilead created for use in future pandemics after Ebola outbreaks in West Africa .
Mr. Allard , who lives in Metuchen , N.J. and is an associate at Bank of America in Manhattan , was admitted to the hospital on the night of March 16 after he had a high fever , back pain and was throwing up , his mother said .
She described Mr. Allard , a former All - American lacrosse player at Bates College , as healthy and with no underlying conditions .
In New Jersey , officials announced 935 new positive cases on Monday , bringing the total to 2,844 , including 27 deaths .
Mr. Allard was tested Tuesday for the coronavirus , but the sample was sent to Quest Diagnostics , and his mother said the hospital never received the results .
As the week went on , Mr. Allard ’s condition rapidly declined , Ms. Allard said .
He was placed in a medically induced coma and put on a ventilator .
Ms. Allard said his doctors wanted to try remdesivir , but they needed to have a confirmed positive test showing he had the illness caused by the virus before they could seek the drug from Gilead .
Finally , after the family made a flurry of calls to elected officials and others , the hospital tested him again on Saturday and received the results from another laboratory in less than six hours .
His results came back positive and that night — around 10:30 — the doctor submitted her request to Gilead .
By the next morning , Ms. Allard said , she was hearing that Gilead was shifting to a new system , and news stories later on Sunday confirmed her fears .
His doctor has submitted another request under the new system , but Ms. Allard now fears his treatment will be delayed .
Ms. Allard said the doctor had previously treated another patient with remdesivir and the turnaround time for approval had been 48 hours .

Anna Wintour and Tom Ford Are Creating a Fashion Rescue Fund .
2020-03-24 14:03:37 +00:00 .
Fashion is no longer just waiting for the government to swoop in and save it .
Seventeen years ago , in the time after Sept. 11 , which brought New York Fashion Week to a terrible halt and cast a long , damaging shadow on many young designer businesses , Vogue and the Council of Fashion Designers of America got together and established the CFDA / Vogue Fashion Fund : an annual competition for new creative talents involving a monetary prize , networking and mentorship .
This week , in the time of the new coronavirus , which has brought life as we know it to a halt , and is already damaging young designer businesses , they are repurposing it .
The CFDA / Vogue Fashion Fund is dead ( at least for a year ; it may return in 2021 ) .
Long live A Common Thread .
A Common Thread is a “ fund - raising initiative supporting those in the American fashion community who have been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic , ” according to a news release from Vogue and the CFDA .
Through it , cash - strapped designers and manufacturers will be able to apply for funding to help them through the period in which their businesses have been effectively shuttered by government decree .
The grant money previously earmarked for the Fashion Fund recipients ( approximately $ 700,000 for the winner and two runners - up ) will presumably form the base purse , and Vogue and the CFDA will also begin a campaign to further build it out , based around short videos debuting March 25 on the digital platforms of both organizations and featuring fashion folk “ whose businesses and livelihoods have been affected by the pandemic and its economic impact . ”
Not just designers , but seamstresses , patternmakers , manufacturers — all members of the fashion supply chain .
It is a fitting second life for an initiative that began in one crisis but often seemed to have lost its urgency in the last decade .
( It ’s hard to find 10 worthy new finalists every year to compete . ) .
Though the Fashion Fund crowned such well - known winners and finalists as Proenza Schouler , Joseph Altuzarra , Rag Bone , Telfar and Kerby Jean - Raymond of Pyer Moss , just as many have experienced a brief flurry of fame and then largely disappeared : Doo - Ri Chung , Behnaz Sarafpour , Trovata , Rogan , Suno .
Even a glamorous prize could not help .
Redirecting the money and good will not at publicizing a small group of potential stars , but at bolstering the back ends of many functioning business may be the most modern possible evolution of the idea .
( Applicants do n’t even have to be part of the club ; being a CFDA member or Fashion Fund participant is not a requirement . )
The news follows an announcement on Instagram by Kerby Jean - Raymond of Pyer Moss that he would be “ setting aside $ 50,000 for minority and women owned small creative businesses currently in distress . ”
It is unclear at the moment what size grants the Common Thread fund will be able to disperse , or what the criteria for recipients will be — or even who will be on the committee that decides who gets what .
But according to insiders , both Anna Wintour , the editor of Vogue , and Tom Ford , the chairman of the CFDA , felt it was imperative that they act as soon as possible to support their community .
They could figure out the specifics later .
Not too much later , though .
The first applications will be available April 8 .

Is Pausing Contributions to SEP I.R.A.s a Good Move? .
2020-03-24 10:05:05 +00:00 .
“ I ’m self - employed .
Given economic uncertainty around the coronavirus outbreak , should I still make a contribution to my SEP I.R.A. ? ”
Contributing to a retirement account warrants some caution right now for self - employed people , since they do n’t get a regular paycheck .
Self - employed people with SEP I.R.A.s ( short for “ simplified employee pension individual retirement arrangements ” ) often make annual contributions at tax time , once they wrap up their tax returns and see how their income shakes out .
They can save 25 percent of their earnings , up to certain limits .
SEP contributions are tax deductible and can be made up to the tax filing deadline , or later if the taxpayer gets a six - month extension to file .
This year , given the sudden slowdown in economic activity , it might be wise to use a filing extension , postpone a SEP contribution and instead build a reserve for paying bills if needed , said Patrick Healey , a financial planner in Jersey City , N.J.
Mr. Healey said he had a SEP I.R.A. and might just do that himself .
“ Right now , ” he said , “ cash is king . ”
Later in the year , the economic outlook should be clearer , and you can make a contribution if you feel secure .
Check with your tax adviser , though , before deciding .
It ’s usually easy to get a six - month filing extension from the Internal Revenue Service by filing a form .
Most years , that gives you until Oct. 15 to make a SEP contribution and file your return .
( Delayed contributions are n’t generally available with traditional or Roth I.R.A.s . )
A six - month extension allows extra time to file , but does n’t allow more time to pay .
You typically must estimate what you owe and make a payment by the original filing deadline .
That ’s usually April 15 — but this year , the federal government is moving tax day to July 15 .
The I.R.S. must clarify many details about the change , so it ’s unclear if filing for an extension will give you a full six months — until Jan. 15 , 2021 — to make a SEP contribution and file your 2019 return , or if the Oct. 15 deadline will apply .
“ We ’ll know more as to how this works as we approach July 15 , ” said Chris Hesse , chair of the tax executive committee at the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants .

Opinion | How Trump Sanctions on Iran Will Worsen the Pandemic .
2020-03-24 05:21:40 +00:00 .
Given that the lives of millions of Iranians are at stake , President Trump needs to suspend the sanctions , allowing other countries to offer humanitarian aid without fear of American repercussions .
Among the many horrors of the Iran - Iraq war was the use of chemical and nerve gas against Iran by Saddam Hussein , who at the time was supported by the United States and European countries .
About 100,000 Iranian survivors of that chemical warfare live with chronic respiratory problems and often need inhalers and oxygen masks .
They are considered at greater risk of being infected by coronavirus .
The isolation Iran experienced in the 1980s during its war with Iraq set it on a path to developing its nuclear and ballistic missile programs and strengthen alliances with countries like Syria , which has worsened the animosity between Washington and Tehran .
Before the Iran - Iraq war , West Germany helped Iraq build facilities for chemical weapons in Falluja and Samarra .
But during the war , West Germany , Austria and Spain opened their doors to Iranian survivors of chemical warfare .
Some of those medical exchanges continue , and they have helped repair relations between Iran and these European nations .
After the coronavirus outbreak , in striking contrast with the United States , China sent a medical team to Iran , followed that with shipments of test kits and ventilators and has publicly requested that the United States to remove sanctions .
Iran is more likely to continue to turn toward China , shifting the balance of powers in the Middle East away from the West .
If the Trump administration continues to block international economic activity with Iran , a country of 80 million people will be abandoned — and the world could suffer the consequences of the unfettered spread of a deadly disease .
Iranians will remember the choice the United States makes today .
Narges Bajoghli is an assistant professor of Middle East studies at Johns Hopkins University , and the author of “ Iran Reframed : Anxieties of Power in the Islamic Republic . ”
Mahsa Rouhi is a research fellow at the Nonproliferation and Nuclear Policy program at the International Institute for Strategic Studies .
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor .
We ’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles .
Here are some tips .
And here ’s our email : letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter ( @NYTopinion ) and Instagram .

Rand Paul’s Positive Coronavirus Test Sets the (Still Meeting) Senate on Edge .
2020-03-23 22:46:34 +00:00 .
His aides had never been told Mr. Paul might have been exposed to the virus or had been tested for it , according to a person familiar with the situation , and some began to fear that they could have contracted it and spread it to their friends and family before the office began working remotely , days after Mr. Paul attended the fund - raiser .
Mr. Paul attended the fund - raiser on a Saturday and arrived in Washington the next Monday evening .
His office closed to work remotely three days later .
Senior officials in Mr. Paul ’s Washington office told their staffs that none of them were at risk , the person said .
But the aides remained livid that they were informed of Mr. Paul ’s exposure only minutes before their office publicly announced his positive test results .
Despite the panic prompted by Mr. Paul ’s announcement , on Monday , debate on the Senate floor proceeded mostly as usual — albeit in more fiery terms — with lawmakers filing into the chamber to vote and sitting in their desks next to one another .
But the specter of the coronavirus weighed heavily over the proceedings .
As Mr. Durbin concluded a speech with his call for remote voting , Senator Jim Risch , Republican of Idaho , approached him .
Both men kept their arms crossed , and Mr. Durbin slowly backed away step by step as they spoke , creating more and more distance between them .
Mr. Paul ’s announcement appeared to have won over some converts for the idea of remote voting .
Senator Lindsey Graham , Republican of South Carolina , who had previously shrugged off the suggestion , took to Twitter to offer his support for the idea .
“ We should make this change before the Senate leaves town , ” Mr. Graham wrote .
There is no indication that House or Senate leaders are moving toward doing so .
For now , senators are maintaining their routine — albeit from a substantial distance , and under considerably more stress .
“ I ’d like to suggest to my friends on both sides of the aisle that we first assume the appropriate distance , ” Mr. Durbin said on Monday as tempers flared on the Senate floor , “ and then secondly , take a deep breath . ”
Nicholas Fandos and Emily Cochrane contributed reporting .

Democratic Convention Planners Look at Contingency Options .
2020-03-23 21:34:17 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON — Planners for the Democratic National Convention are looking at “ contingency options ” in case the mid - July gathering in Milwaukee ca n’t take place because of the coronavirus , officials said on Monday for the first time .
“ As we navigate the unprecedented challenge of responding to the coronavirus , we ’re exploring a range of contingency options to ensure we can deliver a successful convention without unnecessary risk to public health , ” said Katie Peters , a convention spokeswoman .
“ This is a very fluid situation — and the convention is still more than three months away .
We are committed to sharing updates with the public in the coming weeks and months as our plans continue to take shape . ”
One person with knowledge of the discussions said Monday that “ intensive scenario - planning ” was taking place among officials from the Democratic National Committee , the convention committee and the Milwaukee host committee , who were all determining what to do about the convention , which is scheduled for July 13 to July 16 at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee .
Among the complicating factors are the uncertain nature of the professional basketball season — the arena hosting the convention is home to the Milwaukee Bucks , a top N.B.A. team likely to play deep into the playoffs if the league ’s season were to restart — and how the party ’s delegates will be selected .
Delegates in most states are elected to the national convention from state conventions , but many state conventions , scheduled for late spring and early summer , are also being postponed .
Convention planning is also hamstrung by the fact that as long as Senator Bernie Sanders remains in the race , Democrats do not yet have a de facto presidential nominee .
Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. , who has an all but insurmountable delegate lead , can not take the reins of the convention process until either Mr. Sanders concedes or Mr. Biden reaches a 1,991 - delegate threshold .
Mr. Biden can not accumulate more delegates until more states hold their nominating contests .
With many states postponing their primaries , it would be impossible for Mr. Biden to reach 1,991 delegates before June , even if he won all of the delegates in each of the upcoming primaries and caucuses .
A memo sent Friday from the leaders of the D.N.C. ’s Rules and Bylaws Committee said 18 states and Democrats Abroad had proposed changing delegate selection plans previously submitted to and approved by the D.N.C.
The proposed changes articulated in the memo include moving dates of state party conventions where national convention delegates are selected , modifying state party rules that govern the delegate selection process to allow proxy voting , and allowing “ other methods in the steps to select national convention delegates while implementing social distancing in their state . ”
Democratic officials said no major corporate donors had rescinded financial pledges to the convention , but one person involved in fund - raising for the event described the convention ’s fund - raising status as “ frozen . ”
Another person involved in planning the convention said there was still time to make key decisions and emphasized that the party would have some flexibility because members of the Lasry family , which owns the Milwaukee Bucks and controls the Fiserv Forum , are significant Democratic Party donors .

Coronavirus Patients in Limbo as Gilead Suspends Emergency Drug Access .
2020-03-23 19:34:03 +00:00 .
The company has said that it has a limited supply of remdesivir , but that it is increasing production .
It is also drawing on a stockpile Gilead created for use in future pandemics after Ebola outbreaks in West Africa .
Mr. Allard , who lives in Metuchen , N.J. and works as an equity analyst for Bank of America in Manhattan , was admitted to the hospital on the night of March 16 after he had a high fever , back pain and was throwing up , his mother said .
She described Mr. Allard , a former All - American lacrosse player at Bates College , as healthy and with no underlying conditions .
In New Jersey , officials announced 935 new positive cases on Monday , bringing the total to 2,844 , including 27 deaths .
Mr. Allard was tested Tuesday for the coronavirus , but the sample was sent to Quest Diagnostics , and his mother said the hospital never received the results .
As the week went on , Mr. Allard ’s condition rapidly declined , Ms. Allard said .
He was placed in a medically induced coma and put on a ventilator .
Ms. Allard said his doctors wanted to try remdesivir , but they needed to have a confirmed positive test showing he had the illness caused by the virus before they could seek the drug from Gilead .
Finally , after the family made a flurry of calls to elected officials and others , the hospital tested him again on Saturday and received the results from another laboratory in less than six hours .
His results came back positive and that night — around 10:30 — the doctor submitted her request to Gilead .
By the next morning , Ms. Allard said , she was hearing that Gilead was shifting to a new system , and news stories later on Sunday confirmed her fears .
His doctor has submitted another request under the new system , but Ms. Allard now fears his treatment will be delayed .
Ms. Allard said the doctor had previously treated another patient with remdesivir and the turnaround time for approval had been 48 hours .

Opinion | They Don’t Hide From the Coronavirus, They Confront It .
2020-03-23 09:01:46 +00:00 .
As the world writhes in the grip of Covid-19 , the epidemic has revealed something majestic and inspiring : millions of health care workers running to where they are needed , on duty , sometimes risking their own lives .
I have never before seen such an extensive , voluntary outpouring of medical help at such a global scale .
Intensive care doctors in Seattle connect with intensive care doctors in Wuhan to gather specific intelligence on what the Chinese have learned : details of diagnostic strategies , the physiology of the disease , approaches to managing lung failure , and more .
The three - page , single spaced document , full of lessons , circulates immediately and widely through social media platforms , a gem borne of pure , professional commitment .
Facebook starts a “ COVID-19 USA Physician / APP Group ” on March 13 .
It has 57,000 members on March 15 , and 105,000 on March 18 .
The Journal of the American Medical Association , even while moving its staff home for social distancing , sets new records for speeding helpful scientific studies , peer reviewed , onto the web .
Knowledge grows .
One JAMA paper is by a group of Wuhan physicians reviewing patterns and outcomes for 1099 patients , showing surprisingly high rates of severe illness in younger adults .
Another is an honest account by physicians in Lombardy of both successes and mistakes as they grapple with unprecedented intensive care demands .
A list - serve for hospitals started by the Institute for Healthcare Improvement overflows with questions — “ What have you learned about setting up drive - by testing ? ”
“ Has anyone found a new source of masks ? ” — and instant answers from institutions and clinicians .
One anesthesiologist in Valhalla , N.Y. , types in a suggestion : “ Instead of giving up when the ventilators are all in use , how about asking groups of students or family members who have become immune to the virus to ventilate patients manually , using ‘ Ambu bags , ’ in shifts even for days at a time ? ”
Clinicians reply , some critical , some supportive , and all trying to find answers .
And city by city , hospitals mobilize creatively to get ready for the possible deluge : bring in retired staff members , train nurses and doctors in real time , share data on supplies around the region , set up special isolation units and scale up capacity by a factor of 100 or 1000 .
On Tuesday , Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York asks for retired medical personnel to join the city ’s Medical Reserve Corps ; 24 hours later , 1000 new volunteers have signed up .
Northwell Health , a 23 - hospital system in New York City , figures out how to add 1,500 beds , if needed , by repurposing space .

Getting Pregnant Was a Challenge, Then the Coronavirus Happened .
2020-03-22 13:18:03 +00:00 .
While many fertility doctors are canceling appointments and temporarily halting new cycles , the New Hope Fertility Center in New York is having conversations with each patient and deciding on a course of treatment on a case - by - case basis , said Dr. John Zhang , M.D. , Ph.D. , the founder , director and chief executive of the center .
The U.S. government has called for hospitals to suspend elective surgeries to slow the spread of the coronavirus , and because most fertility procedures are considered elective , some doctors have argued that non - urgent fertility surgeries should be suspended to conserve the already dwindling supply of medical equipment and personnel who might be called on to fight the coronavirus .
In addition , if a patient were to fall ill during a treatment cycle , she might need to stop treatment after having already spent a great deal of money .
That ’s a very real concern for patients in most states , including Washington , where insurers are not mandated to cover fertility treatments .
The UW Medicine Reproductive Care clinic is adapting the latest guidelines but will make exceptions for urgent cases like cancer patients or other unique circumstances .
Caroline Haugen , 36 , who lives in Traverse City , Mich. , tried “ for quite some time ” to conceive her first child .
She visited The Fertility Center in Grand Rapids , Mich. , where she received medicated IUIs and eventually became pregnant with a girl , who was born in December 2016 .
She and her husband decided to expand their family this year and planned to return in April for another IUI .
On March 16 she had an ultrasound to examine her uterine lining and the next day a nurse called to tell her that she was cleared to start a new IUI cycle .
Haugen called back on March 20 , a couple days before her medications were expected to arrive , to check back in with the nurse .
It was then that she found out her clinic would not be starting any new cycles out of concern over the potential ramifications of coronavirus .
“ I cried , ” she said .
“ Because it feels like a negative all over again .
Except we did n’t even try . ”
Haugen acknowledged that her clinic is “ just doing what ’s recommended . ”
Even so , she added , “ You want to say , ‘ No !
Do it to me anyways ! ’ ”
Fertility clinic officials who have suspended or canceled treatments say they recognize how difficult this is for patients who have been struggling to conceive .

Things to Do in N.Y.C. This Weekend While Staying Inside .
2020-03-20 21:11:09 +00:00 .
Image Credit ...
C'mon Everybody , via Instagram Since last Friday , the news in New York about the spread of coronavirus has moved at a breakneck pace .
There have been suggestions to stay home and restrictions on large gatherings as well as a near - lockdown as Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that all nonessential businesses would be closed and asked that all residents stay in their homes .
While adjusting to this new reality in the city — as fears over shortages of equipment and protective gear in hospitals intensifies — New Yorkers are quickly moving their social lives online .
But social distancing does n’t mean giving up all social interaction .
It is a reminder that we are all in this together , and participating in online events helps support newly economically vulnerable local businesses .
Here are some suggestions for maintaining a New York social life while keeping a safe distance from other humans .
Friday
Quarantunes Live Concert Series Sydney Ippolito , a Brooklyn - based musician and dancer , will be streaming a concert series featuring herself and three other singer - songwriters : Sarah Murdoch , Eli Denby Wood and Richard Michael Hall .
Each will play a half - hour set of folk and country music from their home .
Ms. Ippolito will stream the concert live via her Instagram account , starting at 7:30 p.m.
Digital Dance Party
C’m on Everybody , a dance club in Bedford - Stuyvesant , Brooklyn , is teaming up with Pleasure Jams , a Brooklyn - based DJ trio , to throw a digital dance party .
Organizers are asking for a $ 5 donation to benefit the club as it remains closed and promise participants can “ put on those dancing shoes and get down to the sounds of house and disco right from the safety of your living room . ”
Visit pleasurejams.com/party starting at 8 p.m.
Fire and Fury Burlesque Hosts Rex Halligan and Nip Fury offer some “ Burlesque and Chill ” time at 9 p.m. A series of burlesque and go - go dancers will bring performances from their home to yours .
Stream “ Home is Where the Hearth Is ” on Vimeo for $ 5 ( or buy for $ 10 ) with the ability to tip straight from your couch .
All the money will be split evenly between performers .
Saturday
A Night at the Opera
For opera fans — or the opera - curious — The Metropolitan Opera is streaming previously recorded performances .
Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. you will be able to watch Donizetti ’s “ Lucia di Lammermoor , ” the tragic love story of members of opposing houses in Scotland who are carrying on a secret affair .
The stream will be available for 20 hours after it premiers .
Virtual Rave with Nowadays
Since it has had to close , the Brooklyn venue Nowadays has created a whole virtual schedule .
Thanks to some help from The Lot Radio , you can live stream D.J. sets while chatting with your fellow ravers .
On Saturday , Physical Therapy , a Nowadays resident , and Jubilee , a “ Miami bass aficionado and a certified dance floor destroyer , ” will be holding it down starting at 8 p.m.
During dance breaks , you can support Nowadays through its Patreon account .
Sunday
Meditate with the Brooklyn Borough President Feeling anxious ?
Join Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn Borough president , in a 20 - minute guided meditation .
“ While we may be feeling isolated socially by our physical separation , ” Mr. Adams wrote , “ we can still come together spiritually through meditation and unity . ”
Mister Sunday
Soul Summit
Usually , when Spring begins , New Yorkers look forward to rooftop and outdoor parties .
Two mainstays of the outdoor Sunday circuit , Mister Sunday and Soul Summit , are joining forces to bring a special Sunday set to your living room , with streaming provided by Nowadays .
The music will go from 8 p.m. until midnight .

Coronavirus Cancellations: An Updating List .
2020-03-19 20:09:11 +00:00 .
The Disneyland Paris Resort and the Disney Cruise Line , which operates four ships that can carry 13,400 people , said it would close from March 15 through the end of March .
For only the fourth time in its 65 - year history , the Disneyland resort in Anaheim , Calif. , said it would close through at least the end of March .
One of the largest rodeos in the world , the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo , was shut down a week into the event .
The rodeo , which was to run through March 22 , features bull and horse riding and an exhibition of cattle , pigs , llamas and other animals , among other activities .
It regularly draws tens of thousands of people every day .
The Tucson Festival of Books , which was planned for March 14 and 15 , was also canceled .
The book festival is one of the biggest in the country and usually draws over 100,000 people to Tucson , Ariz.
The Los Angeles Times postponed its 25th annual Festival of Books , originally scheduled to take place next month on the University of Southern California campus , until October .
The organizers of the giant Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival , which takes place in the picturesque desert of Southern California and is seen as a bellwether for the multibillion - dollar touring industry , have postponed the festival until October .
The festival will now take place in October .
Tickets that were purchased for April will be honored in October .
ABC ’s “ The View ” taped the daytime talk show without a studio audience .
“ The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon ” and “ Late Night with Seth Meyers ” suspended production .
The earliest there could be a new episode of either show is on March 30 , as both shows will be on hiatus the week of March 23 .
“ The Late Show with Stephen Colbert ” on CBS also suspended production , but Mr. Colbert returned to the airwaves on March 17 , delivering a monologue from his bathroom .

Major automakers close their plants in North America. .
2020-03-18 23:16:31 +00:00 .
With fear of infection rising among factory workers , and few customers shopping for cars , several automakers on Wednesday decided to idle their plants in the United States , Canada and Mexico for at least a week .
Their decisions will put tens of thousands of people out of work and add to the coronavirus outbreak ’s growing economic toll .
The country ’s largest automakers — General Motors , Ford Motor and Fiat Chrysler — decided to close plants after the United Auto Workers union pressured them to do so to protect workers .
That pressure intensified after it was revealed on Wednesday that a worker at a Ford truck plant in Dearborn , Mich. , had tested positive for the virus .
Honda and Toyota also said they would idle their North American factories .
The shutdown of car plants will force hundreds of companies that produce parts and components to follow suit over the coming days .
Although some autoworkers will be eligible for sick pay , many will get only a portion of their income and others will have to rely on unemployment insurance .
More than one million people are employed in automobile and auto parts manufacturing in the United States , and 1.3 million work for auto dealerships , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics .
Automakers went into the week hoping to keep their plants running and employees safe by altering shift schedules to leave more time for sanitizing plants and reducing contact between workers .
On Monday , G.M. ’s Chevrolet division began offering zero - percent loans to lure consumers into dealerships .
Hyundai offered to let customers return recently purchased cars if had they lost their jobs .
At the same time the U.A.W. was pressing the three companies based in and around Detroit to halt production for two weeks .
On Tuesday G.M. , Ford and Fiat Chrysler agreed to take steps short of shutting down production .
Then on Wednesday morning Honda announced its plans to stop production , and the news about the Ford worker in Dearborn , Mich. , was made public .
In response , Ford halted work at the final assembly section of the plant while continuing production in the stamping and body shop areas .
Just hours later , all three of the large U.S. automakers reversed course and said they would idle their factories .
Niraj Chokshi contributed reporting .
PHOTO :
General Motors and other U.S. automakers said they would shut down production in North America until at least March 30 to protect workers and clean factories .
( PHOTOGRAPH BY Bill Pugliano / Getty Images FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES )

Ohio Moves to Postpone Primary Over Coronavirus Concerns .
2020-03-16 19:25:39 +00:00 .
Ohio said Monday that it would move to postpone its presidential primary , becoming the first of four states that had been scheduled to vote on Tuesday to try to push back its election because of worries about the coronavirus .
The state ’s governor , Mike DeWine , said that he did not have the authority to unilaterally delay the primary and that a lawsuit would be filed to delay the election .
The new date that state officials are seeking is June 2 , and absentee voting will continue until then , Mr. DeWine said at a news conference .
“ We do n’t know who coming through the line has been infected , ” he said .
“ We should not force people to make this choice , a choice between their health and their constitutional rights and their duties as American citizens . ”
The move came after elections officials in Louisiana and then Georgia said they would postpone their upcoming primary elections in response to the outbreak .
On Friday , Louisiana announced that its April 4 election would be pushed back by more than two months , to June 20 ; Georgia followed suit a day later , saying it would push back its March 24 contest to May 19 .
Ohio elections officials had scheduled a news conference on Monday morning to discuss additional safety precautions they were taking , but abruptly called it off before making the announcement about the postponement .
The four states originally scheduled to vote Tuesday — Arizona , Florida , Illinois and Ohio — had all previously indicated that they planned to move forward with their elections with additional precautions in place , saying in a joint statement on Friday that they were confident that ballots could be safely cast .
Their plans have included making hand sanitizer available at polling places and sanitizing voting equipment to prevent the spread of the coronavirus .
But at least in Ohio , that confidence had apparently waned by Monday .
Mr. DeWine said that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ’s recommendation on Sunday against gatherings of more than 50 people meant that the state could not hold its election and comply .
The about - face by Ohio officials added yet another logistical speed bump to a presidential primary that has already been upended by concerns that voting could worsen a public health crisis .
Several other states have said they were changing or considering making changes to their voting processes and procedures in response to the outbreak .
Wyoming suspended the in - person portion of its Democratic caucuses , allowing residents to either vote by mail or drop off their ballots at a county polling location instead .
Elections officials in Connecticut , Maryland and Pennsylvania said they were considering various ways to encourage voting by mail .
Postponements are highly unusual in American political campaigns , but not entirely unprecedented .
States have broad autonomy to shape various aspects of their primary elections , including determining their the timing .
But rules set by the Democratic Party dictate that all primary elections be completed by June 9 , meaning that states like Louisiana that push their contests beyond that date could be penalized with a reduction in their delegate count .
Matt Stevens contributed reporting .

Ohio Postpones Primary Over Coronavirus Concerns .
2020-03-16 19:08:50 +00:00 .
Ohio said Monday that it would postpone its presidential primary , becoming the first of four states that had been scheduled to vote on Tuesday to temporarily call off its election because of worries about the coronavirus .
The state ’s primary is now set to be held on June 2 , and absentee voting will continue until then , Gov. Mike DeWine said at a news conference .
Mr. DeWine said he did not have the authority to unilaterally delay the primary , so he said he was going to file a lawsuit to delay the election .
“ We do n’t know who coming through the line has been infected , ” he said .
“ We should not force people to make this choice , a choice between their health and their constitutional rights and their duties as American citizens . ”
The move came after elections officials in Louisiana and then Georgia said they would postpone their upcoming primary elections in response to the outbreak .
On Friday , Louisiana announced that its April 4 election would be pushed back by more than two months , to June 20 ; Georgia followed suit a day later , saying it would push back its March 24 contest to May 19 .
Ohio elections officials had scheduled a news conference on Monday morning to discuss additional safety precautions they were taking , but abruptly called it off before making the announcement about the postponement .
The four states originally scheduled to vote Tuesday — Arizona , Florida , Illinois and Ohio — had all previously indicated that they planned to move forward with their elections with additional precautions in place , saying in a joint statement on Friday that they were confident that ballots could be safely cast .
Their plans have included making hand sanitizer available at polling places and sanitizing voting equipment to prevent the spread of the coronavirus .
But at least in Ohio , that confidence had apparently waned by Monday , resulting in an about - face that added yet another logistical speed bump to a presidential primary that has already been upended by concerns that voting could worsen a public health crisis .
Several other states have said they were changing or considering making changes to their voting processes and procedures in response to the outbreak .
Wyoming suspended the in - person portion of its Democratic caucuses , allowing residents to either vote by mail or drop off their ballots at a county polling location instead .
Elections officials in Connecticut , Maryland and Pennsylvania said they were considering various ways to encourage voting by mail .
Postponements are highly unusual in American political campaigns , but not entirely unprecedented .
States have broad autonomy to shape various aspects of their primary elections , including determining their the timing .
But rules set by the Democratic Party dictate that all primary elections be completed by June 9 , meaning that states like Louisiana that push their contests beyond that date could be penalized with a reduction in their delegate count .

Coronavirus Travel Restrictions, Across the Globe .
2020-03-16 18:48:06 +00:00 .
Guatemala
Guatemala President Alejandro Giammattei announced on March 16 that the country was closing its borders for 15 days .
Mexico
As of March 14 , Mexico had not imposed any travel restrictions .
Peru Peru on March 12 announced it would halt all flights from Asia and Europe , but it did not specify when the measure would take effect .
United States
On March 11 the United States barred the entry of all foreign nationals who had visited China , Iran and a group of European countries during the previous 14 days .
The ban applies to countries in the Schengen Area , which are Austria , Belgium , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Slovakia , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland .
Effective March 16 , the ban will apply to foreign nationals departing from the United Kingdom and Ireland .
As of March 13 , all American citizens and legal permanent residents who have been in high - risk areas and return to the United States are required to fly to one of the following 13 airports : Boston - Logan International Airport ( BOS ) , Massachusetts Chicago O’Hare International Airport ( ORD ) , Illinois Dallas / Fort Worth International Airport ( DFW ) , Texas Detroit Metropolitan Airport ( DTW ) , Michigan Daniel K. Inouye
International Airport ( HNL ) , Hawaii Hartsfield - Jackson Atlanta International Airport
( ATL ) , Georgia John F. Kennedy International Airport ( JFK ) , New York Los Angeles International Airport , ( LAX ) , California Miami International Airport ( MIA ) , Florida Newark Liberty International Airport
( EWR ) , New Jersey San Francisco International Airport ( SFO ) , California Seattle - Tacoma International Airport ( SEA ) , Washington Washington - Dulles International Airport ( IAD ) , Virginia
Uruguay
On March 13 , Uruguay announced that all passengers arriving from China , South Korea , Japan , Singapore , Iran , Spain , Italy , France and Germany must go into mandatory quarantine for 14 days .
Venezuela
On March 12 , Venezuela announced it would suspend all flights from Colombia and European countries for at least a month .

Parents Scramble as N.Y.C. Schools Close Over Coronavirus .
2020-03-16 15:35:05 +00:00 .
Families awoke on Monday to the closure of New York City ’s public school system and found themselves scrambling for resources and child care at a time when the threat of the coronavirus has limited many of the usual options .
Ismail Dale , an artist who lives in the Brownsville neighborhood of Brooklyn , works from home , but now has to focus on his son , Trabon , a sixth grader at Public School 364 .
“ I had to cancel a lot of things , ” Mr. Dale , 60 , said .
He planned to keep a close eye on Trabon throughout the day , making sure his son was studying , was physically active and was not spending too much time online .
Trabon , 12 , worried that the time away from school could mean that his grades would eventually drop .
He hoped to keep up with friends via social media and put some time in with his favorite video games , Fortnite and Mario Kart .
The city ’s vast system of 1,800 schools and 1.1 million students faces its most serious challenge in decades with a shutdown that could potentially last through the end of the school year .
“ This is not something in a million years I could have imagined having to do , ” Mayor Bill de Blasio , appearing distraught , said on Sunday , adding that it was an “ extraordinarily painful ” moment for city schools .
The mayor had been under pressure in recent days to close the schools as New York City aggressively attempts to slow down the spread of the coronavirus .
Laptops will be lent to students who do not have computers at home , and the city will work on helping families who do not have internet access , Mr. de Blasio said .
City school buildings will remain open this week for children to pick up food , and then alternative sites will be used .
Ivonne Flores , 35 , and her 7 - year - old son , Obby , waited on Monday morning outside a school in the Woodside neighborhood of Queens for a free breakfast that the system has offered to parents in need .
“ We are depending on this , ” Ms. Flores said , adding that her family members had stocked up on groceries as a precaution because they were unsure how long the schools would provide food .
Schools will be closed until at least April 20 , but could stay closed for significantly longer , Mr. de Blasio said .
Teachers will be asked to report to work later this week for training on remote learning .
Next week , the city will move to remote learning , with several dozen school buildings used as “ learning centers ” to support the children of essential city workers like health care employees .
All public schools in Westchester County and Long Island will also be closed .
In New Jersey , officials are expected to order the closing of all schools , though many districts there have already shut down on their own .
Matthew Sedacca and Nate Schweber contributed reporting .

N.F.L. Cancels Draft in Las Vegas .
2020-03-16 15:29:52 +00:00 .
The N.F.L. has canceled plans to hold its draft in late April in Las Vegas , and will now hold the three - day event only on television , the latest casualty of the restrictions designed to combat the spread of the coronavirus outbreak .
The event , which will still be held April 23 - 25 , will be broadcast on television .
“ The N.F.L. is exploring innovative options for how the process will be conducted and will provide that information as it becomes available , ” the league said in a statement .
“ Public N.F.L. Draft events in Las Vegas next month will not take place . ”
The move comes after mounting skepticism that the N.F.L. would be able to host a major event , particularly one that would draw tens of thousands of fans to The Strip in Las Vegas , while nearly every other sports league and organization had already shut down .
The draft , and the spectacle of first - round draft picks becoming newly minted millionaires on national television and in front of throngs of fans , is one of the N.F.L. ’s marquee events .
This year ’s version was to be hosted by the Las Vegas Raiders , which opens its new $ 1.9 billion stadium this season , and is supposed to play its first games in Nevada in September after moving from Oakland .
But new guidance announced on Sunday from the Centers for Disease Control limiting gatherings to no more than 50 people for the next eight weeks made the possibility of holding the Draft with fans in attendance nearly impossible .
Commissioner Roger Goodell said that the decision to cancel the live event was made “ in consideration of current information related to COVID-19 and guidance from medical experts such as the C.D.C. , and in coordination with public authorities in Nevada and the City of Las Vegas . ”
On Sunday , MGM Resorts International , which operates some of the largest and most famous casinos and hotels in Las Vegas , said it would shut down until further notice .
The draft was going to be held at some of MGM properties , including the famed fountains in front of the Bellagio hotel .
The company said it would not take reservations before May 1 .
Wynn Resorts said it would close its hotels in Las Vegas for two weeks .
In recent years , the N.F.L. has increased the size and scale of the draft .
For decades , it was held in Midtown Manhattan at Radio City Music Hall , with a short red carpet event for high profile players arriving on the first night .
The league moved the draft to Chicago , Philadelphia , Dallas and Nashville since then , adding ancillary events that have attracted tens of thousands of fans in festival - like settings .
Three networks — ESPN , the NFL Network and Fox Sports — now broadcast the proceedings and more than 2,000 media passes are issued in some years .
This year ’s event was supposed to be even more extravagant , partly because it coincides with the arrival of a new team in Las Vegas , and partly because of the city ’s reputation for glitz and partying .
The N.F.L. has ways of re - creating the Draft as a made - for - television event , including using the N.F.L. Network studios .

Coronavirus in the U.S.: Live Coverage of Its Impact .
2020-03-16 15:14:26 +00:00 .
March 16 , 2020 , 11:10 a.m.
ET
March 16 , 2020 , 11:10 a.m.
ETBy Alan Blinder Evan Krauss , a mascot handler at Butler , introduced the university ’s new mascot , a bulldog named Butler Blue IV , to the crowd at a basketball game in January in Indianapolis .
Credit ...
Luke Sharrett for The New York Times March and early April could have been awfully exciting for Butler Blue IV .
The mascot - in - waiting at Butler University , a plump English bulldog born less than five months ago , had been scheduled to travel from Indianapolis to New York for the Big East men ’s basketball tournament .
If Butler had reached the Final Four , Blue , as the puppy is known , would have made the journey to Atlanta .
But both the conference and national tournaments were canceled last week , and Blue , expected to take over mascot duties in May , stayed home .
So did his predecessor , Trip , the regal dog who had been teaching the puppy the ropes around campus , where dorms will be closed until at least April 4 and in - person classes have been suspended .
“ Selfishly , as basketball junkies and shills for these dogs , we ’re extremely sad , but that pales in comparison to the heartbreak we have for our seniors on our basketball teams , and our student - athletes who compete in spring sports , ” Michael Kaltenmark , Trip ’s handler , wrote in an email on Friday .
“ These recent developments are devastating for them , and terribly unfair , ” he added .
“ Our dogs have had their day , and will have more days in the limelight to come .
But many of those athletes , who provide us a stage with which to bask in the glow , will have to hang up their uniforms with a lack of proper closure . ”
But well before the coronavirus became a pandemic , we visited Indianapolis to meet Blue and see how he was preparing for the rigors of being a live mascot .
It was quite a process .
Read more

An in-house expert helped Microsoft decide to let workers stay home. .
2020-03-16 00:34:55 +00:00 .
SEATTLE — About 10 a.m. on Saturday , Feb. 29 , local officials said a man in Kirkland , Wash. , less than 10 miles from Microsoft ’s headquarters , had become the first known person in the United States to die from the coronavirus .
Then came news that more than 50 people associated with a long - term care facility nearby were also sick .
“ We essentially have a nursing home at home , ” Mr. Nadella , 52 , said in an interview .
“ It struck me as this is a real issue for many of us , and in our own community . ”
Four days later , he and his executive team told tens of thousands of Microsoft employees in the Seattle area that they could work at home .
The day after that , they insisted that workers work from home , making the software giant one of the first major employers in the United States to do so .
More than 40,000 employees are usually on Microsoft ’s main campus each day .
By the end of last week , that number had dropped below 5,000 .
Globally , the company is asking employees to work from home only where health officials recommend it ( and that is the case now in a number of countries ) .
Around the country , professional sports leagues have suspended their seasons .
Airlines have trimmed staff and cut routes .
The jubilant tech campuses in Silicon Valley have been largely vacated .
Microsoft ’s executives saw it all coming more than two weeks ago .
With its headquarters in Redmond , Wash. , across Lake Washington from Seattle , Microsoft ’s executives and employees worked and lived near the first major coronavirus outbreak in the United States .
Mr. Nadella , Kurt DelBene , a senior executive who has overseen the company ’s response , and three other Microsoft executives directly involved in the company ’s decision - making spoke with The New York Times last week .
Until the outbreak in Kirkland , the coronavirus had largely been a supply - chain problem for Microsoft , related to the Chinese factories that produce personal computers and Microsoft devices .
It caused enough of a disruption to the company that in late February Microsoft told investors that sales would fall short of its estimates .
That changed on Feb. 29 .
By 4 p.m. , Mr. Nadella and his leadership team were on a call , trying to make sense of the news .
Microsoft ’s sheer size meant its decisions reached beyond its own work force , he said .
Act too rashly and it could cause panic .
But by retrenching , Microsoft could help the safety of a whole community , particularly people at high risk like his son .
On the call , Brad Smith , Microsoft ’s president , said he was concerned that the mysterious spread of a virus was the kind of issue that could lead smart people , without expertise , to make poor decisions .
“ I said , ‘ This is interesting , but none of us have a Ph.D. in public health , ’ ”
Mr. Smith said .
“ At that point , Colleen said , ‘ Well , actually you all do n’t really know me , but I have a Ph.D. in public health . ’ ”
Colleen Daly , an in - house specialist who works to improve the health of Microsoft ’s work force , had been asked to join the call .
Mr. Nadella had never met or talked with Ms. Daly before .
“ She was able to ground us in all of what is the fact and the data , ” Mr. Nadella said .
The company ’s senior leaders decided to stick to public health guidance .
That night , they emailed employees with a simple update : They should stay home if they were sick , and health officials did not have indications that there was wide community transmission of the virus .

Coronavirus Travel Restrictions, Across the Globe .
2020-03-15 22:27:23 +00:00 .
United States
On March 11 the United States barred the entry of all foreign nationals who had visited China , Iran and a group of European countries during the previous 14 days .
The ban applies to countries in the Schengen Area , which are Austria , Belgium , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Slovakia , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland .
Effective March 16 , the ban will apply to foreign nationals departing from the United Kingdom and Ireland .
As of March 13 , all American citizens and legal permanent residents who have been in high - risk areas and return to the United States are required to fly to one of the following 13 airports : Boston - Logan International Airport ( BOS ) , Massachusetts Chicago O’Hare International Airport ( ORD ) , Illinois Dallas / Fort Worth International Airport ( DFW ) , Texas Detroit Metropolitan Airport ( DTW ) , Michigan Daniel K. Inouye
International Airport ( HNL ) , Hawaii Hartsfield - Jackson Atlanta International Airport
( ATL ) , Georgia John F. Kennedy International Airport ( JFK ) , New York Los Angeles International Airport , ( LAX ) , California Miami International Airport ( MIA ) , Florida Newark Liberty International Airport
( EWR ) , New Jersey San Francisco International Airport ( SFO ) , California Seattle - Tacoma International Airport ( SEA ) , Washington Washington - Dulles International Airport ( IAD ) , Virginia
Uruguay
On March 13 , Uruguay announced that all passengers arriving from China , South Korea , Japan , Singapore , Iran , Spain , Italy , France and Germany must go into mandatory quarantine for 14 days .
Venezuela
On March 12 , Venezuela announced it would suspend all flights from Colombia and European countries for at least a month .
Asia China Travelers in China who have recently visited South Korea , Japan and Italy — countries with “ severe outbreaks ” — and are headed toward Beijing or Shanghai , or provinces such as Guangdong and Sichuan , will be quarantined for two weeks in a Chinese facility .
India
As of March 13 , the Indian government suspended most travel and tourism visas , with the exception of “ diplomatic , official , U.N. or International Organizations , employment and project visas ” until April 15 .

Updates on Sports Canceled by Coronavirus .
2020-03-15 20:59:08 +00:00 .
The Olympic flame lighting ceremony in Greece on Thursday was held without spectators , and the torch relay was suspended Friday morning after larger crowds than expected turned up to watch .
Baseball
Major League Baseball postponed the start of its regular season , scheduled for March 26 , by at least two weeks and canceled all remaining spring training games .
Japan has postponed the start of its baseball season , scheduled for March 20 , until April .
Running
The Boston Marathon , a spring staple on the sports calendar , will instead be held on Sept. 14 .
The New York City Half Marathon , scheduled for Sunday , has been canceled .
The London Marathon was delayed until October .
The Paris and Barcelona Marathons have also been delayed until October .
The Rome Marathon on March 29 has been canceled .
Winter Sports
The World Figure Skating Championships in Montreal , scheduled to run March 18 to 22 , have been canceled .
The event was expected to feature about 200 skaters from more than 50 countries .
The women ’s world ice hockey championship , to be played in Canada beginning March 31 , has been canceled .
The Alpine World Cup finals , scheduled to begin March 18 in Italy , have been canceled .
The last three races of the women ’s skiing World Cup , to be held in Sweden , were canceled .
Cricket
The Indian Premier League , the richest league in the world , in a country where cricket ’s popularity is off the charts , postponed the start of its season until April 15 .
England called off its tour of Sri Lanka , which had already begun with exhibition matches .
“ These are completely unprecedented times , and decisions like this go beyond cricket , ” the English Cricket Board said in a statement .
South Africa and India canceled international games as well .
Bill Pennington contributed reporting .

Coronavirus Travel Restrictions, Across the Globe .
2020-03-15 17:02:33 +00:00 .
Guatemala
Effective March 16 , Guatemala will bar the entry of citizens of the United States , Canada , South Korea , Italy , France , the United Kingdom , China and Iran .
Mexico
As of March 14 , Mexico had not imposed any travel restrictions .
Peru Peru on March 12 announced it would halt all flights from Asia and Europe , but it did not specify when the measure would take effect .
United States
On March 11 the United States barred the entry of all foreign nationals who had visited China , Iran and a group of European countries during the previous 14 days .
The ban applies to countries in the Schengen Area , which are Austria , Belgium , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Slovakia , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland .
Effective March 16 , the ban will apply to foreign nationals departing from the United Kingdom and Ireland .
As of March 13 , all American citizens and legal permanent residents who have been in high - risk areas and return to the United States are required to fly to one of the following 13 airports : Boston - Logan International Airport ( BOS ) , Massachusetts Chicago O’Hare International Airport ( ORD ) , Illinois Dallas / Fort Worth International Airport ( DFW ) , Texas Detroit Metropolitan Airport ( DTW ) , Michigan Daniel K. Inouye
International Airport ( HNL ) , Hawaii Hartsfield - Jackson Atlanta International Airport
( ATL ) , Georgia John F. Kennedy International Airport ( JFK ) , New York Los Angeles International Airport , ( LAX ) , California Miami International Airport ( MIA ) , Florida Newark Liberty International Airport
( EWR ) , New Jersey San Francisco International Airport ( SFO ) , California Seattle - Tacoma International Airport ( SEA ) , Washington Washington - Dulles International Airport ( IAD ) , Virginia
Uruguay
On March 13 , Uruguay announced that all passengers arriving from China , South Korea , Japan , Singapore , Iran , Spain , Italy , France and Germany must go into mandatory quarantine for 14 days .
Venezuela
On March 12 , Venezuela announced it would suspend all flights from Colombia and European countries for at least a month .

Film Series to in N.Y.C. This Weekend .
2020-03-13 20:03:35 +00:00 .
Note : Because of the coronavirus outbreak and the state ’s ban on gatherings of more than 500 people , many events have been canceled .
As of press time , these were still scheduled to take place .
Before heading out , visit the website of the performance space or organization for the latest updates .
FAMILY PORTRAITS : THE FILMS OF HIROKAZU KORE - EDA at IFC Center ( through March 19 ) .
Kore - eda , who won the top prize at Cannes in 2018 for “ Shoplifters ” ( screening in this series on Friday ) , returns on March 20 with a film made outside of Japan , “ The Truth , ” starring Catherine Deneuve and Juliette Binoche .
( A sneak preview will be shown on Saturday . )
IFC Center ’s retrospective offers a near - comprehensive look at his past work , from acclaimed domestic dramas such as “ Like Father , Like Son ” ( on Friday and March 19 ) and “ Still Walking ” ( on Saturday and Tuesday ) to the oddity “ Air Doll ” ( on Sunday and Wednesday ) , in which Kore - eda , ever the humanist , lends unexpected sincerity to a story in which a sex doll comes to life ( played by the South Korean actress Bae Doo - na ) .
212 - 924 - 7771 , ifccenter.com
[ New York events at smaller venues go on . ]
FIRST LOOK 2020 at the Museum of the Moving Image ( through March 15 ) .
This annual series always examines the cutting edge of international cinema , but the latest edition is also something of a throwback .
In “ Bird Talk ” ( on Friday ) , Xawery Zulawski directs a screenplay written by his father , the gonzo Polish auteur Andrzej Zulawski , who died in 2016 ; “ On the Silver Globe , ” a science fiction allegory that the elder Zulawski completed in the 1980s after the Ministry of Culture halted production a decade earlier , screens the next day .
In “ Maggie ’s Farm ” ( on Sunday ) , the experimental filmmaker James Benning , known for structuring his films around landscapes and duration , turns his gaze on the CalArts building where he works .
718 - 784 - 0077 , movingimage.us
[ Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead . ]
ULRIKE OTTINGER at the Metrograph ( March 14 - 21 ) .
Reviewing an exhibition of this German writer , photographer and filmmaker 20 years ago , Roberta Smith wrote that Ottinger ’s sensibility “ ranges effortlessly and extravagantly between ethnographic documentary and Surrealist feminist fantasy , sometimes within the same film . ”
Ottinger will appear at several screenings in this retrospective of her cinematic work , which includes “ Freak Orlando ” ( on Saturday ) , very loosely inspired by Virginia Woolf , and “ Joan of Arc of Mongolia ” ( on Sunday ) , an epic shot in Mongolia .
212 - 660 - 0312 ,
metrograph.com

New York Events at Smaller Venues Go On .
2020-03-13 19:11:58 +00:00 .
After Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York announced a statewide ban on most gatherings of more than 500 people on Thursday in response to the coronavirus outbreak , many cultural institutions shut their doors .
Broadway performances have been halted and the Metropolitan Museum of Art , the Guggenheim , the Metropolitan Opera and Carnegie Hall are among arts centers that have announced shutdowns .
But some presenters have decide to remain open for the time being , especially smaller venues that fall beneath the 500 - person threshold .
Other organizations have adapted to the ban by offering live streams , online content or visits by appointment .
Here is a brief list of cultural attractions that remain open , in one form or another , in New York City .
The situation remains in flux , so before heading out , visit the website of the performance space or organization for the latest updates .
Another note : Movie theaters and some other venues may be limiting their audience capacity by 50 percent to allow for social distancing to minimize the chance of infection .
“ Harry Townsend ’s Last Stand ” at City Center Stage II will continue as scheduled .
“ Colorstruck ” and “ The White Blacks ” will play through the end of their runs on March 15 at Theater for the New City .
Productions opening later in March are also currently scheduled to run as planned .
“ The Death of Ivan Ilyich ” is running through March 14 as scheduled at the Paradise Factory Theater .
“ Echoes in the Garden ” at Chain Theater is open through the weekend .
“ Perfect Crime ” and “ The Office : A Musical Parody ” will continue performances at the Theater Center .
“ Stomp ” is planning to continue to run for the foreseeable future at the Orpheum Theater .
The Blue Note Jazz Club is open .
Check its online calendar for upcoming performances .
The KGB Bar and the Red Room Speakeasy music venue , and the New York Comedy Club and the Kraine Theater will remain open , with limited seating capacity following the governor ’s guidelines .
Check for events on the KGB and the Kraine Theater ’s websites .
The Stand comedy club is open , and , according to staff , “ still laughing . ”
92nd Street Y will live stream performances in place of in - person concerts for the next two weeks .
Live streams include a recital by the pianist Garrick Ohlsson at 8 p.m. on March 14 and a performance by the mezzo - soprano Fleur Barron at 7:30 p.m. on March 18 .
Zoos , Gardens and Parks

The Boston Marathon Has Been Postponed Until Sept. 14 .
2020-03-13 14:40:51 +00:00 .
The Boston Marathon , one of the country ’s oldest continuous sporting events , will not take place on April 20 because of mounting concerns about the coronavirus .
Instead , the race will be held on Monday , September 14 .
The 26.2 - mile race first took place in 1897 and has been held annually through wars , periods of domestic tension , and in intense weather .
After resisting calls to cancel the race for weeks , the Boston Athletic Association , which owns the event , announced that the race would be postponed to September something because health officials have said banning large - scale events is a key tool in stopping the spread of the virus .
Officials said they plan to reschedule the race for later this year because of the economic impact it brings to the city .
Mayor Martin J. Walsh said the race brings more than $ 200 million to Boston .
“ So you think about the economic impact on the city but the bottom line is my job as mayor is to make sure that people are safe , ” Walsh said earlier this week .
The race , which follows a course from Hopkinton in Boston ’s western suburbs , to downtown Boston , has a field of 30,000 runners , and hundreds of thousands more line the streets to cheer them on .
Other than the Olympic Trials , it is the only major marathon in the country that most runners have to qualify for by running fast enough to meet a standard for their age group .
It is a major accomplishment for weekend warriors and the qualifying times last for one year only .
The B.A.A. does not allow runners to defer their entries for a year if they get injured .
About 6,000 runners get into the race by committing to raise money for charity .
The B.A.A. spent the past months monitoring updates from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , the state Department of Public Health , and the World Health Organization to inform its decision .
Coronavirus has wreaked havoc with the global road racing schedule this spring with organizations following different strategies .
The Tel Aviv Marathon , scheduled for late February , prohibited anyone from flying into the country to run the race .
The Paris Marathon , scheduled for April , postponed the event until October , as did the Barcelona Marathon .
All eyes are now turning to the next major marathon on the calendar , the London Marathon , which is set to take place on April 26 .

Trump Ties Obama to C.D.C.’s ‘Inadequate’ Testing System .
2020-03-13 11:43:31 +00:00 .
President Trump on Friday again claimed that his response to the coronavirus was hindered by the Obama administration , which left office three years ago .
Mr. Trump attacked Mr. Obama , who served with Mr. Trump ’s likely Democratic challenger , Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. , in two posts on Twitter .
“ For decades the @CDCgov looked at , and studied , its testing system , but did nothing about it , ” Mr. Trump wrote .
“ It would always be inadequate and slow for a large scale pandemic , but a pandemic would never happen , they hoped .
President Obama made changes that only complicated things further .
“ Their response to H1N1 Swine Flu was a full scale disaster , with thousands dying , and nothing meaningful done to fix the testing problem , until now , ” he continued .
“ The changes have been made and testing will soon happen on a very large scale basis .
All Red Tape has been cut , ready to go ! ”
he wrote .
Mr. Trump was not specific about what changes President Barack Obama made to “ complicate things further , ” but at least one regulatory change previously discussed by Mr. Trump and his C.D.C. director was never put into effect .
Meanwhile , an Australian official who posed with Ivanka Trump and Attorney General William P. Barr on March 6 has tested positive for the coronavirus , officials said .
Peter Dutton , the home affairs minister , said in a statement that he woke up with a fever and a sore throat , and later a test confirmed the diagnosis .
Mr. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence met over the weekend with a Brazilian official at the president ’s private club , Mar - a - Lago , who later tested positive for the virus .
After the revelation on Thursday , White House officials said the president would not be tested .

4 Comedy Shows to Catch in N.Y.C. This Weekend .
2020-03-12 21:05:33 +00:00 .
Our guide to stand - up , improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead .
Note : Because of the coronavirus outbreak and the state ’s ban on gatherings of more than 500 people , many events have been canceled .
As of press time , these were still scheduled to take place .
Before heading out , visit the website of the performance space or organization for the latest updates .
‘ CRAZY HOT : THE WET SHOW ’ at Caveat ( March 14 , 9:30 p.m. ) .
Eileen Hanley and Lauren Aussem will host this variety show that explores the fundamentals of attractiveness .
They ’ll employ stand - up , dancing , improvisation and even PowerPoint presentations to delve into why we ’re drawn to all looks that are dewy , slick and moist .
Ziwe , Drew Lausch , Zach Teague , Andrés Govea and others will help Hanley and Aussem out .
212 - 228 - 2100 , caveat.nyc ‘ ELECTRIC B*TCH ’ at KGB Bar ( March 13 , 7 p.m. ) .
Katy Berry , a regular with the longstanding musical comedy troupe Baby Wants Candy , hosts her own monthly cabaret at the Red Room on the third floor of this East Village bar .
Backed by a live band , she will perform fully improvised songs based on her conversations with audience members .
Joining her this month are Daniel Reitz , Kiki Mikkelsen , Jon Bander and the dancer Venatrix Rey - Pop .
917 - 450 - 0767 , redroomnyc.com ‘ KIDS THESE DAYS : A SKETCH COMEDY SHOW ! ’ at the Peoples Improv Theater ( March 14 , 8 p.m. ) .
Last summer , you may have seen six members of this comedy group , founded in 2018 by Rachael Burke , a former “ Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon ” staffer , on the NBC competition series “ Bring the Funny . ”
They could only bring three minutes of funny at a time on the show .
But in this showcase , you ’ll see the full cast of 10 perform a whole hour of topical and evergreen sketches .
212 - 563 - 7488 , thepit-nyc.com
[ Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead . ]
‘ LIVE FROM NEW YORK , IT ’S NEW JERSEY ! ’ at Friends and Lovers ( March 13 , 8 p.m. ) .
This bar in Crown Heights , Brooklyn , will play host to a themed variety hour devoted to our neighbor to the west , the Garden State .
Credit or blame the comedian Chris Calogero for this idea .
He ’ll show off not only facts and funny characters , but also food : He ’ll treat audience members to antipasto , while he and Chris Gethard eat pasta and dish about their native New Jersey .
eventbrite.com

7 Plays and Musicals to Go to in N.Y.C. This Weekend .
2020-03-12 21:05:30 +00:00 .
Our guide to plays and musicals coming to New York stages and a few last - chance picks of shows that are about to close .
Our reviews of open shows are at nytimes.com/reviews/theater .
Note : Because of the coronavirus outbreak and the state ’s ban on gatherings of more than 500 people , many events have been canceled .
As of press time , these were still scheduled to take place .
Before heading out , visit the website of the performance space or organization for the latest updates .
Previews Openings ‘ THE FRE ’ at the Flea Theater ( in previews ; opens on March 15 ) .
Having brought a dancing - penis kickline to Broadway , Taylor Mac has now sunk low .
In this new work , set in and around a mud pit , a young aesthete tries to persuade his grubby hedonists to de - ooze .
In this show , directed by Niegel Smith , “ audiences will literally and figuratively jump into the mud , ” the theater warns .
212 - 226 - 0051 , theflea.org ‘ GNIT ’ at the Polonsky Shakespeare Center ( in previews ; opens on March 19 ) .
Henrik Ibsen ’s fairy tale of man ’s search for self — plus trolls — arrives in a new , modern - day adaptation from the existentially oriented playwright Will Eno .
In this Theater for a New Audience production , Jordan Bellow , Joe Curnutte , Crystal Dickinson , Deborah Hedwall , Matthew Maher and Erin Wilhelmi star .
Oliver Butler directs .
866 - 811 - 4111 , tfana.org ‘ LUNCH BUNCH ’ at 122CC ( previews start on March 18 ; opens on March 29 ) .
Sarah Einspanier ’s compassionate comedy , about public defenders , their midday meals and what we owe to ourselves and one another , comes back for seconds .
The Play Company revives this Summerworks show , directed by Tara Ahmadinejad with a cast that includes the original players Ugo Chukwu , Keilly McQuail and Julia Sirna - Frest .
866 - 811 - 4111 , playco.org ‘ NOLLYWOOD DREAMS ’ at the Robert W. Wilson MCC Theater ( previews start on March 19 ; opens on April 13 ) .
Jocelyn Bioh , an actress and playwright who has a wicked way with comedy , premieres a new play .
In Lagos , Nigeria , in the 1990s , Ayamma ( Sandra Okuboyejo ) , a travel agent , fantasizes about becoming a leading lady in that country ’s burgeoning film industry .
Then she gets the chance .
Saheem Ali directs for MCC .
646 - 506 - 9393 ,
mcctheater.org
[ Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead . ]
Last Chance ‘ ANATOMY OF A SUICIDE ’ at the Atlantic Theater Company at the Linda Gross Theater ( closes on March 15 ) .
Alice Birch ’s play , dazzling in its form and devastating in its effect , ends its Off Broadway run .
With dizzying simultaneity , the play follows three generations of women ( Carla Gugino , Celeste Arias , Gabby Beans ) in the throes of suicidal depression .
Lileana Blain - Cruz directs .
866 - 811 - 4111 , atlantictheater.org ‘ EMOJILAND :
THE MUSICAL ’ at the Duke on 42nd Street ( closes on March 19 ) .
Get your sad faces ready as this symbolist musical by Keith Harrison and Laura Schein shuts down .
A romantic comedy set inside a smartphone and starring Lesli Margherita and Lucas Steele , it was described by Laura Collins - Hughes as “ the kind of sheer fun that sends you back into the world feeling a little more upbeat . ”
646 - 223 - 3010 , emojiland.com ‘ SHE PERSISTED ’ at the Atlantic Theater Company at the Linda Gross Theater ( closes on March 22 ) .
This Atlantic for Kids musical about women who changed history sings its final anthems .
Adapted by Adam Tobin and Deborah Wicks La Puma from Chelsea Clinton ’s best - selling children ’s book , the show , Laura Collins - Hughes wrote , “ cleverly conveys positive values . ”
She added , “ This is bouncy fun with a serious streak . ”
866 - 811 - 4111 , atlantictheater.org

How the Coronavirus Is Changing Sports, Culture and Life in the U.S.: Live Updates .
2020-03-12 19:31:47 +00:00 .
March 12 , 2020 , 3:31 p.m. ET
March 12 , 2020 , 3:31 p.m. ETBy Oskar Garcia
The men ’s tennis tour was suspended for six weeks on Thursday , soon after the mayor of Miami announced that the Miami Open , one of the top tournaments in the United States , would be canceled as part of a curtailing of large events .
A NASCAR race and major events at American Airlines Arena , the home of the N.B.A. ’s Miami Heat , were also canceled .
“ This is not a decision we have taken lightly and it represents a great loss for our tournaments , players and fans worldwide , ” said Andrea Gaudenzi , the chairman of the Association of Tennis Professionals .
It was not immediately clear how the Women ’s Tennis Association would handle its events .
The Miami Open was scheduled to run March 23 - April 5 , with top players including Serena Williams , Novak Djokovic and Australian Open champion Sofia Kenin .
Its cancellation comes after the BNP Paribas Open , one of the world ’s leading tennis tournaments in the Southern California community of Indian Wells , was also canceled because of the spread of coronavirus .
The next major tennis tournament , the French Open , is scheduled to begin May 24 .
Carlos A. Gimenez , the mayor of Miami - Dade County , said in a statement that a NASCAR race scheduled for March 22 at Homestead Miami Speedway would be postponed , and that NASCAR decide whether to hold the race without fans .
There could be more cancellations of indoor events of more than 250 people , depending on the guidance of federal and state health officials , Gimenez said .
The N.B.A. abruptly suspended its season Wednesday after one of its players tested positive for the coronavirus .
Read more

M.L.B. Delays Start of Season and Suspends Spring Training Games .
2020-03-12 19:26:44 +00:00 .
Major League Baseball became the latest professional sports league to respond to the threat of the novel coronavirus on Thursday , postponing the start of its regular season by at least two weeks .
The league also announced that all spring training games would be canceled , effective immediately .
“ Following a call with the 30 clubs , and after consultation with the Major League Baseball Players Association , Commissioner Robert D. Manfred Jr. today announced that M.L.B. has decided to suspend spring training games and to delay the start of the 2020 regular season by at least two weeks due to the national emergency created by the coronavirus pandemic , ” M.L.B. said in a statement .
Baseball acted only after the N.B.A. , the N.H.L. and M.L.S. — the three active major American professional leagues — had all made announcements suspending their seasons .
Baseball ’s regular - season schedule was set to begin on March 26 , giving M.L.B. the advantage of time , but preseason exhibitions continued as scheduled Thursday morning — with , as always , thousands of fans and stadium workers mingling at the games .
Even before the announcement , individual teams had taken steps to protect club employees .
The Yankees were among several teams that have called all professional scouts and national cross - checkers off the road , though scouts will still be allowed to evaluate players in their home areas .
“ We will take our lead from people that are immersed with expertise more so than any sports entities , ” General Manager Brian Cashman of the Yankees said .
“ We are trying to implement best practices as we go along .
Every day there is a new adjustment to it . ”
Baseball has suspended its season before , postponing a week of games after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in 2001 .
Those games were made up at the end of the regular season , pushing back the postseason by a week .
The 1989 World Series was also suspended for more than a week after an earthquake struck Northern California just before the scheduled start of Game 3 in San Francisco .
Several seasons have also been shortened by work stoppages without making up missed games , including 1972 , 1981 , 1994 and 1995 .
But baseball has played a full , 162 - game schedule every year since , with only a handful of games missed because of weather .
In Japan , which has more than 1,300 confirmed cases of the coronavirus , the professional baseball league on Monday postponed the start of its season , which had been set to begin on March 20 .
Chris Iannetta , a veteran catcher for the Yankees who has been active in the players ’ association , said M.L.B. was different from the N.B.A. because of the venues , and expressed hope that baseball games could continue .
“ We are an outdoor sport , ” he said .
“ You know , our TV dollars are pretty big , and this is a business .
“ People are going to be home , not doing a lot and they are going to need some entertainment .
We are entertainment .
This is the Show .
In essence , we are a Broadway show , just a different type of Broadway show .
We are out here to entertain the fans and we love to do it .
If we can provide some distraction for some people going through some hard times , then that ’s awesome . ”
Of course , the same could be said for other sports , which also generate TV revenue and provide entertainment .
And M.L.S. games , like most baseball games , are played outdoors .
Shortly after Iannetta spoke , M.L.B. fell in line with the other sports in adjusting to the rapidly changing reality of managing the unknown .
David Waldstein contributed reporting from West Palm Beach , Fla.

Treasury Considers Delaying Tax Day Over Coronavirus .
2020-03-11 14:43:36 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON — The Treasury Department is considering delaying tax payments beyond the April 15 deadline , according to a person familiar with the plans , as taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service brace for economic disruption from the spread of the coronavirus .
Treasury and White House officials have been discussing the idea of extending the tax deadline over the past week as the administration considers measures to relieve financial pressure on individuals and businesses struggling with fallout from a virus that has closed schools , kept workers at home and disrupted supply chains .
The I.R.S. could extend the tax payment deadline or waive penalties and interest for late payments .
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin , appearing at a hearing on Capitol Hill on Wednesday , did not address a full scale delay of Tax Day but said he believed the Trump administration could create an additional $ 200 billion in liquidity by providing certain taxpayers and small businesses extensions on their taxes .
The plan to potentially delay taxes , which was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal , came as Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee wrote to Charles Rettig , the I.R.S. commissioner , to ask for an update on the effect of the outbreak on tax filing season and for an evaluation of whether the agency needed to re - evaluate the traditional April 15 deadline .
“ We are concerned about the ability of the I.R.S. to provide taxpayer assistance and process returns , as well as the ability of taxpayers , free tax preparation sites , and tax professionals to meet the filing deadline , ” the lawmakers wrote .
They noted that “ the I.R.S. has authority to extend the time for filing any return for six months or less and the authority to waive certain penalties upon a showing of reasonable cause . ”
The lawmakers also asked that the I.R.S. consider “ the need for relief ” from certain filing and payment fees and penalties for people affected by the coronavirus .
Asked after a congressional hearing last week about deferring or delaying tax payments , Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin acknowledged that the idea had been discussed but said it was “ not something we ’re considering at the moment . ”
On Monday , as stock markets plunged , President Trump said the administration would consider economic stimulus options , including a payroll tax cut and other relief .
During a White House briefing on the virus on Tuesday , Larry Kudlow , the director of the National Economic Council , said the administration could use executive authority to help individuals and businesses , noting that “ we have leverage on tax deferral . ”
Mr. Mnuchin is holding talks with Speaker Nancy Pelosi about a package of options for stimulating the economy .
After a meeting with her on Tuesday afternoon , Mr. Mnuchin said that he was hopeful that a bipartisan agreement could be reached on legislation , but that he was also working on options that the Treasury Department could take unilaterally .
“ There are things we can do on our own , and we ’re exploring those , too , ” Mr. Mnuchin said .
Delaying tax day would also ease logistical problems that the I.R.S. could face if more government workers were forced to work remotely .
The tax collection agency has service centers across the country that require staff to have face - to - face contact with the general public .
The Treasury Department and the I.R.S. did not immediately return requests for comment .
Alan Rappeport reported from Washington , and Emily Cochrane from New York .

Canceled Because of Coronavirus: A Brief List .
2020-03-10 00:33:05 +00:00 .
Austin , Texas , canceled the 34th annual South by Southwest festival after tech companies , including Apple , Facebook , Twitter and TikTok , withdrew their participation .
The music , tech and film festival was to run from March 13 to 22 , with events planned throughout bars and party spaces across Austin , and at a convention center .
The Tucson Festival of Books , which was planned for March 14 and 15 , was also canceled .
The book festival is one of the biggest in the country and usually draws over 100,000 people to Tucson , Ariz.
Google canceled its I / O developer event near Palo Alto , Calif. , which was scheduled for May.
The company usually announces new products and developments at the event .
Southern California ’s Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival was still on track to begin on April 10 .
But a petition calling for its cancellation had gathered nearly 15,000 signatures by Monday evening .
The release of the latest movie in the James Bond franchise has been postponed until November .
The movie , “ No Time to Die , ” had previously been scheduled to open in April .
China has closed most of its movie theaters , shutting off its $ 9 billion annual market , second only to North America ’s .
The Ultra Music Festival in Miami was postponed until next year .
Conferences and Education
Many businesses and professional organizations postponed or canceled conferences , including the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society , which had organized a global health conference scheduled to take place in Orlando , Fla.
President Trump had been among the scheduled speakers .

Opinion | Can the Fed and Friends Save the Economy? .
2020-03-03 17:03:34 +00:00 .
This article is part of Paul Krugman ’s newsletter .
You can sign up here to receive it each weekday .
Markets were in a state of near panic , deeply worried about the economic outlook .
But then the Federal Reserve stepped up : its chairman issued a statement strongly suggesting that he would cut interest rates .
And the market experienced a huge relief rally .
No , I ’m not talking about Monday ’s big market bump .
I ’m talking about Dec. 5 , 2000 , in the middle of what we now remember as the bursting of the dot - com bubble .
( Actually , I wonder if some of my readers are too young even to remember that ? )
The Fed chairman in question was Alan Greenspan ; his remarks sent the tech - heavy Nasdaq soaring 10.5 percent in a day , while broader stock indexes also rose by several points .
The relief was , however , short - lived .
Stocks quickly began falling again .
The Nasdaq would n’t regain the level it reached on Greenspan Day until , wait for it , 2012 .
I ’m not making a stock market prediction here ; that ’s a mug ’s game ( and sometimes I ’ve been the mug ) .
I ’m just trying to put Monday ’s rally into perspective .
The thing is , markets actually had more reason to place faith in Alan Greenspan 2000 than they do to have faith in Jerome Powell 2020 , because Greenspan had a lot more ammunition .
The short - term interest rates the Fed effectively controls were above 6 percent in late 2000 , and the Fed ended up cutting rates by about 5 percentage points — which was , it turned out , still not enough to prevent a big stock slump and a recession .
Before today ’s rate cut , the Fed only had around 1.5 percent , leaving far less room to cut .
And the Fed ’s counterparts abroad are in even worse shape : short - term interest rates in Europe are actually negative , so the European Central Bank has basically no room at all to cut further .
So why did markets get all giddy over the prospect of central bank stimulus ?
Bear in mind , also , that it was always a given that the Fed would cut rates if the coronavirus looked likely to do serious economic damage .
So there was n’t even much news on that front .
What probably happened , instead , was that talk of Fed easing provided a convenient peg on which to hang a story that was mostly about herd behavior .
My view of markets was shaped long ago by a classic analysis Robert Shiller — who later won a richly deserved Nobel Prize — did of the huge October 1987 stock crash , which came out of the blue .
After the fact , people tried to come up with various explanations of the crash , but Shiller managed to interview a large number of traders in real time , as the crash was happening .
He found , basically , that traders were selling because other traders were selling ; it was essentially a self - reinforcing selling panic .
What happened Monday was basically a self - reinforcing buying panic .
But were last week ’s big sell - offs equally irrational ?
Probably .
There was some real news about the coronavirus , but probably not enough to justify the sheer scale of the decline .
So what happens next ?
When it comes to the markets , I have no idea .
But when it comes to the underlying economics , we know two things .
First , the coronavirus is looking more and more like a serious blow to the economy .
Second , as I ’ve already pointed out , the Fed and its counterparts do n’t have much room to respond .
I ’ve been saying for a while that I did n’t know when the economy would next face a serious bump in the road , but I did know that our shock absorbers were pretty much shot .
Well , here comes the bump .
Brace yourself .

Stop Touching Your Face! .
2020-03-02 10:00:59 +00:00 .
“ I was really surprised , ” Dr. McLaws said .
“ By touching your mucous membranes , you ’re giving a virus 11 opportunities every hour if you ’ve touched something infectious . ”
The risk of picking up a virus by hand - to - face contact depends on a number of factors , including the type of virus , whether the surface was nonporous , how long ago the virus was left behind , how much time the infected person spent in the area and the temperature and humidity levels .
The World Health Organization notes that while we do n’t know how long the new coronavirus survives on surfaces , it seems to behave like other coronaviruses — which is unsettling news .
A recent study from the Journal of Hospital Infection found that similar coronaviruses have been shown to survive on surfaces for as long as nine days under ideal conditions .
That ’s far longer than the flu virus , which typically can survive under ideal conditions only up to 24 hours on hard surfaces .
Public Health England says that , based on studies of other coronaviruses like SARS and MERS , “ the risk of picking up a live virus from a contaminated surface ” under real - life conditions “ is likely to be reduced significantly after 72 hours . ”
In general , a virus will survive the longest on nonporous surfaces made of metal and plastics — including door knobs , counters and railings .
A virus will die sooner on fabrics or tissues .
Once on your hand , a virus begins to lose potency , but it will probably live long enough for you to touch your face .
Although more study is needed of coronavirus , in one study of rhinovirus , which causes the common cold , a small dose of virus was placed on a participant ’s finger .
An hour later , about 40 percent of the virus was still viable .
After three hours , 16 percent could still be detected .
We also know from the 2003 epidemic of SARS , a more deadly coronavirus than the one currently spreading , that the virus was often transmitted from surface contact .
In one Hong Kong hotel , an infected doctor who checked into his room on the ninth floor before going to the hospital for treatment left a trail of virus that infected at least seven people who also had rooms on the ninth floor , who then went on to spread the disease elsewhere .
The doctor , who died from the infection , was later identified as a “ super spreader ” linked to about 4,000 cases of SARS that occurred during the epidemic .
The good news is that frequent hand washing can make a meaningful difference in lowering your risk .
During the SARS epidemic , hand - washing reduced the risk of transmission by 30 to 50 percent .
But after washing your hands , you must still be mindful about face touching , Dr. Sawyer said .
“ Your hands are only clean until the next surface you touch , ” he said .
“ When you reach for the door knob or hand railing , you ’ve recontaminated your hand with something .
If you touch your mucous membranes , then you could inoculate yourself inadvertently with that organism .
If there is one behavior change that could prevent infection , it ’s do not touch your T - zone . ”

As New Coronavirus Spread, China’s Old Habits Delayed Fight .
2020-02-02 14:06:56 +00:00 .
It was only with the order from Mr. Xi that the bureaucracy leapt into action .
At that point the death toll was three ; in the next 11 days , it would rise above 200 .
In Wuhan , the city banned tour groups from visiting .
Residents began pulling on masks .
Guan Yi , the Hong Kong expert who had earlier voiced optimism that the outbreak could level off , was now alarmed .
He dropped by one of the city ’s other food markets and was shocked by the complacency , he said .
He told city officials that the epidemic was “ already beyond control ” and would leave .
“ I hurriedly booked a departure , ” Dr. Guan told Caixin , a Chinese news organization .
Two days later , the city announced that it was shutting itself down , a move that could only have been approved by Beijing .
In Wuhan , many residents said they did not grasp the gravity of the epidemic until the lockdown .
The mass alarm that officials feared at the start became a reality , heightened by the previous paucity of information .
Crowds of people crushed the airport and train stations to get out before the deadline fell on the morning of Jan. 23 .
Hospitals were packed with people desperate to know if they , too , were infected .
“ We did n’t wear masks at work .
That would have frightened off customers , ” Yu Haiyan , a waitress from rural Hubei , said of the days before the shutdown .
“ When they closed off Wuhan , only then did I think , ‘ Oh , this is really serious , this is not some average virus . ’ ”
Wuhan ’s mayor , Zhou Xianwang , later took responsibility for the delay in reporting the scale of the epidemic , but said he was hampered by the national law on infectious diseases .
That law allows provincial governments to declare an epidemic only after receiving central government approval .
“ After I receive information , I can only release it when I ’m authorized , ” he said .

Harold and Marion Wernig, Together Until the End, Die at 87 and 85 .
2020-05-29 22:49:20 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
Harold and Marion Wernig had what their three daughters described as a “ fierce ” love .
They could argue like the Bickersons one minute , and in the next be holding hands like teenagers .
They might get frustrated with each other , but woe to anyone else who criticized one of them .
“ They would defend each other until their dying day , ” said their oldest daughter , Margaret Ann Kern .
Their youngest daughter , Linda Maynard , recalled her mother telling her , “ The reason our marriage lasted is because we fight . ”
They met on a blind date at an ice cream parlor in Richmond Hill , Queens , and were married in 1953 .
He was 20 .
She was 18 .
Like so many who came of age in the Eisenhower era , the Wernigs left the city for the suburbs , raising their children on Long Island .
They lived in a three - bedroom ranch house in Blue Point , N.Y. , with cedar shake shingles , a big bay window and a fireplace .
Mr. Wernig , a master craftsman who worked as an electrician , built the house himself .
Mr. Wernig set up a workshop in the basement , where he kept his tools meticulously organized .
Ms. Wernig , who worked as a secretary for the Internal Revenue Service , was famed in her family for her cooking .
He took care of all the outside stuff , she took care of the inside stuff .
Decades passed .
The couple retired and moved to Florida .
The family grew to include nine grandchildren and 10 great - grandchildren .
But through it all , the Wernigs were never apart .
In February , when they moved into an assisted living facility in Sayville , N.Y. , to be closer to their children , they were handed a questionnaire .
Asked what is the most important thing to know about you , Ms. Wernig replied , “ I do n’t want to be away from my husband . ”
Only death , on April 19 at Long Island Community Hospital in Patchogue , N.Y. , could separate them .
He was 87 .
She was 85 .
The cause was the coronavirus , said their middle daughter , Patricia Johnson .
Harold Herbert Wernig was born on Aug. 18 , 1932 , in Queens .
Marion Isabel Sganga was born on July 29 , 1934 , in Brooklyn .
In later years , they loved to watch tennis and golf on TV , and to play cards , especially a game called Hand and Foot .
It became a family tradition .
They taught the game to their children and grandchildren .
Mr. Wernig began showing signs of sickness in early April .
Days later , he was taken to the hospital .
Ms. Wernig followed him there the next day .
Soon both were on ventilators .
When Ms. Wernig was taken off the ventilator , her family expected her to die right away .
But she held on for 60 hours , dying at 2 a.m. Mr. Wernig ’s ventilator was removed later that day and he stopped breathing within a half - hour .
Their children eventually made peace with losing both parents at once .
“ Now , we tend to feel comfort in that , ” Ms. Johnson said .
“ And comfort in the sense that they were together .
It was their day .
They stayed together , they went together . ”
That day , April 19 , was the couple ’s 67th wedding anniversary .

Alberto Rottura, Stylist to Bold Face Names, Dies at 77 .
2020-05-29 19:03:14 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
For years , one of Alberto Rottura ’s well - heeled customers habitually paid the same amount for his weekly haircut : $ 18 , without tip ( none was necessary , his wife had advised , since Mr. Rottura owned the salon ) .
Finally , the customer volunteered some advice : “ Alberto , ” he said , “ why do n’t you raise your rates ? ”
“ I did , ” Mr. Rottura replied .
He had , in fact , been too gentlemanly to tell his loyal customer , whom he considered a friend .
Since then , and until 10 weeks ago when Mr. Rottura fell ill , the customer had paid $ 50 for his haircuts .
Mr. Rottura died on May 25 in Manhattan .
The cause was complications of Covid-19 , his son Gianluca Rottura said .
He arrived alone from Italy in 1960 as a teenager .
He opened his own salon , became an American citizen and traveled with Judy Garland as her personal hairdresser .
He returned to the Upper East Side of Manhattan to capture a boldface roster of clients in salons on Sutton Place , Madison Avenue and , most recently , Lexington Avenue , at Liz Hair Stylist .
His clientele included the real estate developer Jerry Speyer and his wife , Kathryn Farley , the chairwoman of Lincoln Center ; the authors Mary Higgins Clark and Tom Wolfe ; and assorted Ferragamos , Fendis and Borgheses .
During the 2000s , he cut the hair of New York City ’s top two elected officials , Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg , a customer since the 1970s , and the Public Advocate Betsy Gotbaum .
“ I gave his children their first haircut , ” Mr. Rottura said of Mr. Bloomberg in an interview with The New York Times in 2008 .
Mr. Rottura steered clear of politics , focusing more on what was on a customer ’s head than inside it .
“ I ’m always very careful with what I ask the mayor , ” Mr. Rottura said .
“ But I do n’t have a problem telling him a dirty joke . ”
Alberto Rottura was born on Sept. 4 , 1942 , in Acquaro , a village of 2,000 people in Calabria .
His father , Luigi , made wine and olive oil .
His mother , Giovanna , was a homemaker .
Alberto began working in a barbershop as a teenager , got through school to the 10th grade and sailed from Naples to New York on the S.S. Constitution when he was 17 .
He studied hairdressing in London and Paris and returned to New York when he was 23 to open his first salon .
He started the restaurant Sistina on Second Avenue ( it has since moved to East 81st Street , managed by his nephew Giuseppe Bruno ) .
It was awarded two stars by Bryan Miller of The Times when it opened in 1984 .
Mr. Rottura cut hair six days a week and worked at the restaurant seven nights .
He left Sistina and two years later , in 1997 , he established a wine boutique , In Vino Veritas , on First Avenue , which is run by his sons , Gianbruno and Gianluca , who survive him along with his wife , Liliana , two grandchildren , a brother and a sister .
Mr. Bloomberg , in a phone interview , hailed him as “ the ultimate immigrant . ”
“ Alberto was honest , scrupulous , hardworking , the kind of person we want to come to this country , ” Mr. Bloomberg said .
“ He worked for everything he ever got and gave it all to the next generation . "

Boston Marathon Canceled for the First Time .
2020-05-28 18:56:38 +00:00 .
The Boston Marathon was canceled on Thursday for the first time in its 124 - year history , officials announced , as the spread of the coronavirus made clear that earlier plans to postpone the race until September were too optimistic .
The race — the most prominent and prestigious marathon in the United States — has been held annually since 1897 , even amid world wars , periods of domestic tension and in snow and rainstorms .
But with experts saying mass events remain a clear danger throughout the country as cases of Covid-19 continue to rise , the Boston Athletic Association and Mayor Martin J. Walsh of Boston announced the marathon would not take place in 2020 as a “ traditional , one - day event , ” even as other sports leagues have recently made plans to return to play .
Organizers intend to hold a “ virtual ” marathon , with people running the 26.2 miles remotely .
The Boston Marathon , originally scheduled for April 20 , was initially postponed in March and rescheduled for Sept. 14.-But as the severity of the pandemic grew it became clear that September was not realistic for a race that regularly brings hundreds of thousands of people together .
“ While our goal and our hope is to make progress in containing the virus and recovering our economy , this kind of event would not be responsible or realistic on September 14 or any time this year , ” Mr. Walsh announced on Twitter .
There have been more than 5.6 million confirmed cases of the coronavirus worldwide .
On Wednesday , the United States reached a grim milestone of more than 100,000 deaths .
The pandemic has brought the sports world to a halt , and leagues coming back to play are largely doing so without fans to bring as few people together as possible .
The Boston Marathon has a field of 30,000 runners — the majority of whom qualify for the race by running fast enough to meet a standard for their age group — and a strong elite field that includes many international runners .
Hundreds of thousands of fans cheer on the sides and thousands of volunteers ensure a smooth race .
The race , which follows a course from Boston ’s western suburbs to its downtown , usually takes place on Patriots ’ Day , a state holiday in Massachusetts celebrating the start of the Revolutionary War .
It serves as one of the major civic events for Massachusetts and New England .
Other than the Olympic trials , it is the only major marathon in the country that most runners have to qualify for .
Doing so is a major accomplishment for weekend warriors , and the athletic association does not allow runners to defer their entries for a year if they are injured .
About 6,000 runners get into the race by committing to raise money for charity .
The race brings more than $ 200 million to the city .
The cancellation of the Boston race heightened uncertainty surrounding the fall road racing season .
The London Marathon , another race among the six Abbott World Marathon Majors , was also postponed from its original run date of April 26 to Oct. 4 .
It is still on the calendar .
The Berlin Marathon , scheduled for late September , will not take place on that date , though organizers have yet to announce a cancellation .
The 2021 Boston Marathon is scheduled for April 19 .

Sam Johnson, Former P.O.W. and Long-Serving Texas Congressman, Dies at 89 .
2020-05-28 03:55:39 +00:00 .
Former Representative Sam Johnson , a military pilot who spent years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam before representing a Dallas - area district in Congress for more than two decades , died Wednesday .
He was 89 .
Mr. Johnson , a conservative Republican , died in Plano , Texas , of natural causes unrelated to the coronavirus outbreak , said his former spokesman , Ray Sullivan .
Mr. Johnson flew nearly 100 combat missions in Korea and Vietnam and was flying a bombing mission over Vietnam in 1966 when he was shot down and wounded .
He was imprisoned in the infamous prisoner - of - war camp known as the Hanoi Hilton for nearly seven years , mostly in solitary confinement .
One of his fellow prisoners was John McCain , who later became a Republican senator from Arizona .
The two men often clashed in Congress , but Mr. Johnson ardently defended Mr. McCain in 2015 when Donald J. Trump — before he was elected president — suggested that Mr. McCain was not a hero because he had been captured .
When Mr. Johnson was elected to Congress in 1991 , he vowed to stay a maximum of 12 years , though he served more than double that .
When he stepped down in 2019 , at age 88 , he was the oldest member of the House .
“ Scripture tells us , ‘ There is a time for everything , and a season for every activity under heaven , ’ ”
Mr. Johnson wrote in a January 2017 letter to constituents , telling them he would retire at the end of his term .
“ For me , the Lord has made clear that the season of my life in Congress is coming to an end . ”
Samuel Robert Johnson was born on Oct. 11 , 1930 , in San Antonio .
He grew up in Dallas , married Shirley Lee Melton in 1950 and graduated the following year from Southern Methodist University with a degree in business administration .
He enlisted in the military at age 20 and served during the Korean and Vietnam wars .
In April 1966 , his plane was hit and he was forced to eject during a mission in Vietnam .
Mr. Johnson recalled trudging through the jungle before being surrounded by North Vietnamese soldiers who took him to Hoa Lo Prison , better known as the Hanoi Hilton .
He recalled tapping code on the wall to communicate with other Americans , using a chipped green tin cup to help amplify the sounds .
“ Our captors , ” he said , “ would blare nasty recordings over the loudspeaker of Americans protesting back home . ”
He was released in February 1973 , retired from the Air Force three years later and began a home - building business .
He went to Congress after winning a special election in 1991 .
In February 2018 , the 45th anniversary of his release in Vietnam , Mr. Johnson donated the chipped tin cup to the Smithsonian ’s National Museum of American History .
In his autobiography , “ Captive Warriors : A Vietnam POW ’s Story , ” Mr. Johnson said the cup “ symbolized our war of resistance for seven long years . ”
“ It had been a means of communication and , as such , a means of survival , ” he said .
Mr. Johnson ’s wife died in 2015 .
He is survived by his daughters , Gini Johnson Mulligan and Beverly Johnson Briney , and 10 grandchildren .
His son , James Robert Johnson , known as Bob , died in 2013 at age 61 .

N.W.S.L. Plans a One-Month Season: 25 Games in One City .
2020-05-27 14:24:43 +00:00 .
The National Women ’s Soccer League on Wednesday laid out an ambitious , and potentially risky , plan to return to the field late next month for its first games since the start of its 2020 season was interrupted by the coronavirus pandemic .
Under the schedule that league officials outlined Wednesday morning , the nine teams would gather in Utah in late June and complete their entire seasons as a 25 - game tournament over 30 days .
The proposed event , to be called the N.W.S.L. Challenge Cup , will be an Olympic - style tournament with a group - play stage and then an eight - team knockout tournament .
The games — the first is set for June 27 — will be the league ’s first competition since last October ’s championship game , and will succeed only through a mix of careful planning , extensive virus testing , strict health protocols and no small amount of good fortune .
And all of it hinges on the players ’ willingness to participate , the absence of new outbreaks and hundreds of tests before and after the games arrive in Utah .
All of the matches will be played in the Salt Lake City suburbs of Herriman and Sandy , the home of one of the league ’s teams ,
Utah Royals F.C.
Under the format the N.W.S.L. has proposed , each team would play four games at the 5,000 - seat Zions Bank Stadium in Herriman to determine seedings for an eight - team knockout round that will follow .
The semifinals and final ( set for July 26 ) would be played at the larger Rio Tinto Stadium in Sandy , the home of the Royals .
No fans will be allowed to attend any of the games .
CBS will broadcast the tournament opener and the final , and the other games will be available live on the network ’s CBS All Access streaming platform .
Dell Loy Hansen , the Utah Royals owner , and his organization will be the de facto host .
Hansen , who also owns the Major League Soccer team Real Salt Lake and the two Utah stadiums , will use his team ’s expansive training complex to accommodate all of the teams ’ training and competition needs .
The league plans to partner with two area hotels to house all nine teams and their staff members in what the league is calling an “ N.W.S.L. Village ” — an effort at a quasi - quarantine that it hopes will lessen the risk of coronavirus infection for all involved .
Details of the event are not final .
As recently as Tuesday , league officials and representatives of the players associations representing the league ’s rank - and - file players and the members of the United States women ’s national team were still working to negotiate testing and isolation protocols , best practices to avoid contracting or spreading the virus , and off - the - field guarantees for the teams and their players both during pretournament camps in their home cities and at the Utah event itself .
It is unclear how many of the members of the United States women ’s national team , who represent the bulk of the league ’s best players and marquee attractions , will take part .
The team members remain split on playing , according to two people with knowledge of their plans , with some eager to get back on the field and others wary of the health and injury risks of a compressed season played — except for the semifinals and final — on artificial turf and during an ongoing pandemic .
Still , the league ’s ability to forge a plan that would save its season when other women ’s leagues have failed qualifies as a success .
Under its new commissioner , Lisa Baird , the N.W.S.L. has even managed to sign three new commercial partners : PG and Secret , who will serve as presenting sponsors for the Challenge Cup , and Verizon , which will announce a multiyear agreement with the league on Wednesday .

Sal Capozucca, Rock Drummer with a Real Estate Gig, Dies at 65 .
2020-05-24 18:57:18 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
The Rousers , a rock band formed by a couple of high school buddies from Connecticut , once veered close to stardom when a young Madonna opened for them at Max ’s Kansas City in 1981 , right before that incubator of downtown Manhattan cool closed .
That same year , the band released a single , “ Party Boy . ”
“ Psychedelic rockabilly ” is how the critic Robert Palmer of The New York Times described it .
After the release the band switched out their drummer for Sal King — born Salvatore Michael Capozucca — a handsome , powerful player with a sparkly 1960s - era Ludwig drum kit and a florid , swing - inspired style .
Like his new bandmates , Tom Milmore , the lead guitarist , and Bill Dickson , the bass player , Sal had been playing since he was a child .
In his case , since age 3 , when an uncle gave him a drum set .
Fame may have eluded the band , yet as the decades wore on and their hair turned gray , the Rousers continued playing .
They rehearsed every week and performed year round , though some years less than others as family responsibilities and day jobs demanded more of their time .
Mr. Capozucca — or Mr. Cappi , as he called himself at work — became a successful real estate broker , with a specialty in Brooklyn brownstones .
He married his longtime girlfriend , Veronica Griffith , in 1983 .
She had spotted him across the dance floor at Club 82 , a storied drag bar on East 4th Street , 11 years earlier .
On that night , Mr. Capozucca — always a flashy dresser ( David Bowie was his hero ) — was peacocking in blue satin pants and a white satin scarf .
Mr. Capozucca died on May 13 at N.Y.U. Langone Health hospital in Manhattan where he had spent the last two months being treated for Covid-19 , his wife said .
He was 65 .
Mr. Capozucca was born on April 28 , 1955 , in Brooklyn .
His father , Tony Capozucca , was a salesman , his mother , Betty Jean ( Gibbons ) Capozucca , a legal secretary .
As a teenager , Sal played at proms , weddings and street festivals .
He loved Buddy Rich and Gene Krupa , and made sure to work a drum solo into his performances .
In addition to his wife , Mr. Capozucca is survived by his daughter , Victoria ; his brother , John , and sister , Vera .
“ Things happen for a reason , ” Mr. Capozucca told The New York Times in 2017 , in a story about a new New York City club scene for aging rockers and their arthritic fans ( early sets ! ) .
“ It was n’t meant to be .
That life , that rock ’ n ’ roll life , is a life of heavy partying .
So being famous might have led to my early demise . ”
In late February , the Rousers played a gig at Bowery Electric , with a set that featured songs like “ Old Man Band , ” a sendup of the Rousers ’ demographic ( sample lyric : “ older and slower than we were before / you should listen as we rock some more ” ) .
They played so well , said Mr. Milmore , they surprised themselves .
“ Sal called me the next day and said , ‘ What the hell happened to us ?
How come we were that good ? ’ ”
Less than a month later , Mr. Capozucca was hospitalized .
“ The band was always a celebration of our friendship and our long time together , ” said Mr. Milmore .
“ We were just brothers , and it was always about that before anything else .
Of course , Sal was always mad we were n’t famous . ”

Lockdown Threatens Future of Shakespeare’s Globe Theater .
2020-05-20 19:44:14 +00:00 .
Shakespeare ’s Globe , a celebrated institution in London that showcases some of the world ’s most recognizable stage plays , is in danger of permanently closing if it does not receive emergency funding to help make up for revenue it has lost during the coronavirus lockdown .
The Globe , a full - scale replica of Shakespeare ’s original 1599 open - air theater , is just one of many cultural institutions facing an uncertain future because of the pandemic .
The theater , which opened in 1997 , said it generates 95 percent of its income from ticket sales , guided tours , education workshops , retail and catering .
“ Despite being well - managed , well - governed , and — crucially — able to operate without public subsidy , we will not be able to survive this crisis ; a tragedy for the arts , for the legacy of England ’s most famous writer , but also for the country , if our iconic site on Bankside stands empty , ” the Globe said , referring to its location on the south bank of the Thames .
The theater recently submitted written evidence to Parliament saying that it would need at least 5 million pounds ( about $ 6.1 million ) in emergency funding before it could reopen and begin generating income from productions and event bookings after the lockdown ends .
It is also asking for donations on its website so it “ can continue to thrive in the future . ”
The theater said it “ is well - run , well - managed and financially resilient , but in the face of a crisis such as this one , there is no mechanism to help us . ”
In its memo to Parliament , the theater said its income had already declined by 25 percent before it closed on March 18 because people were avoiding public activities as the virus spread .
Now the theater is spending down its reserves , imposing “ radical ” cost - cutting measures and furloughing members of its staff , it said .
It also said it needed to cover the cost of security and the operation of its website to keep its audience engaged before reopening .
The theater told Parliament that if it were to reopen later than September 2020 , it would have “ significant difficulty in maintaining current levels of operation ” and that it might experience a “ long - term erosion of income - generation channels . ”
Income from ticket sales may suffer , it said , if audiences are reluctant to return before a vaccine is available .
Julian Knight , the chairman of the Digital , Culture , Media and Sport Committee in the House of Commons , wrote a letter to Oliver Dowden , the culture secretary , on Monday expressing concern about the impact the coronavirus pandemic has had on Britain ’s cultural institutions .
“ The threat to the U.K. ’s cultural landscape is stark , ” Mr. Knight wrote , citing “ world - renowned institutions such as Shakespeare ’s Globe warning of insolvency and closure . ”
He called on the government to step up its support of cultural institutions and to provide financial support for those in creative industries who were either ineligible for or had unsuccessfully applied for emergency public funding through Arts Council England , a government - financed body that distributes subsidies to the arts .
In response to the letter , Neil Constable , the chief executive of Shakespeare ’s Globe , said in a statement that the theater was “ proudly part of the U.K. ’s national identity and cultural landscape ” and that its survival depended on help from the government to get through the lockdown period .
“ Together , we are determined to come back after this crisis , ” he said .
“ However , the arts must be protected and we need urgent financial support to survive in any recognizable form . ”

Francis Kennedy, War Hero and Restless Inventor, Dies at 95 .
2020-05-20 17:49:55 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
From time to time over the decades , Francis A. Kennedy would rub a patch of stubble on his face and then find a tiny wooden splinter in his palm .
On Sept. 25 , 1951 , Mr. Kennedy , a 27 - year - old officer serving as a forward artillery observer , was on patrol on the Korean Peninsula when his unit was ambushed by Chinese soldiers .
They quickly picked off three of his men .
Mr. Kennedy , his Rosary prayers mingling with the whine of bullets , pulled all three to safety , but not before an enemy round smashed into a tree nearby , embedding fragments of it into his face and body .
For his heroism , Mr. Kennedy won the Silver Star ; for his wounds , the first of two Purple Hearts .
And for the rest of his life he bore the splinters , which would rise , unpredictably , out of his skin like memories .
His children — 10 boys and three girls raised in a house near Buffalo with a single bathroom — remembered him as a puckish storyteller and a restlessly creative inventor huddled over his work at a tarp - draped pool table in their garage .
He came close to hitting it big in the 1970s , when he invented an early form of caller - ID .
He had more success a few years later designing an energy - efficient concrete block .
Early on , he tended bar , worked in a steel mill and sold liquor wholesale to put food on the table .
He adored John and Robert Kennedy , thought ( though never proved ) that he and the more famous Kennedy family were relatives , and even bought Lady Bird Johnson ’s former limousine as a gift to his wife , whose name was Jacqueline Kennedy and , yes , known as Jackie .
Mr. Kennedy was born on June 21 , 1924 , in Pittston , Pa. , to Francis P. and Loretta Kennedy .
Frank was 16 when he ran away from home in 1942 to enlist during wartime but was sent back after his mother had demanded it .
When he came of age , Mr. Kennedy joined an Army aerial branch and excelled as a mechanic , though he never made it into combat .
By the time the Korean War broke out , he had re - enlisted and chose one of the most dangerous combat assignments possible , finding the coordinates for enemy targets from close range on the ground or in the air .
He also flew on 154 sorties , many as an air spotter , and was shot down three times .
Once , after crash - landing behind enemy lines , he leapt off a 40 - foot - high cliff to evade the enemy and made it back to camp , six miles away , with a broken foot , his son Tim said .
Mr. Kennedy is also survived by 11 other children ( one son died before him , as did his wife ) , 38 grandchildren , 38 great - grandchildren and a great - great - grandchild , his family said .
Mr. Kennedy was proud of his service , and of all the medals , but he felt compelled to make up for his role in the war by leaving a positive mark on the world through his inventions , his daughter in - law Lynn Kennedy said .
His son Thom recalled : “ He believed he would never be able to get into heaven because of all the deaths he caused by calling in artillery strikes .
I ’d say , ‘ Dad , think of how many lives you saved . ’
But to his last days he carried that with him . ”

Marie Pino, Navajo Teacher Who Educated Generations, Dies at 67 .
2020-05-20 15:13:20 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
Marie Pino , a teacher who educated generations of children in a remote part of the Navajo Nation , knew how deadly Covid-19 could be .
Just weeks ago , the viral disease took the life of her son .
Marcus Pino was 42 when he died in April .
He was the basketball coach at the Alamo Navajo Community School in Alamo , N.M. , the same rural school where his mother taught for years .
“ She got sick at the same time she was mourning , ” said her daughter Natalie Pino , 32 , a health care worker .
After testing positive for Covid-19 , Marie Pino was taken to a hospital in Albuquerque and died on May 13 , her daughter said .
She was 67 .
Ms. Pino ’s death , as well as that of her son , resonated in the Alamo Navajo Indian Reservation , a noncontiguous outpost of the Navajo Nation spreading over 63,000 acres of western New Mexico .
About 2,000 people live there ; telephone service did n’t arrive until the late 1980s .
The Navajo Nation is struggling with one of the deadliest outbreaks in the United States , with 4,071 confirmed cases of Covid-19 and 142 deaths as of Tuesday .
Ms. Pino was born on Nov. 9 , 1952 , to Luis and May Smith , and raised in the Navajo village of Sheep Springs .
Her father worked for the railroad and herded sheep ; her mother wove traditional rugs .
They sent Ms. Pino to a boarding school for Native American children in Oklahoma .
Ms. Pino attended Haskell Indian Nations University in Lawrence , Kan. , where she met and married Ira Pino Sr .
The pastor of Alamo Miracle Church , a Pentecostal congregation , he is being treated himself for Covid-19 at an Albuquerque hospital .
Natalie Pino said her mother devoted her life to teaching out of a belief that Native American children should have the option of attending public school near their home instead of boarding schools established with the objective of assimilating Indigenous children .
Ms. Pino , who taught elementary school for much of her more than 40 - year career , would talk to her students both in English and in Diné Bizaad , the Navajo language enduring in this part of the West .
She was still teaching middle school at the time of her death .
In addition to her husband and her daughter Natalie , Ms. Pino is survived by her sons Ira and Anderson Pino ; daughters Cheryl Ganadonegro and Ivonne Bogg ; 17 grandchildren and one great - grandchild .
Natalie Pino said her mother was also known for closely following tribal and national politics with a well - honed sense of humor , often satirizing political leaders .
“ She loved her students and was passionate about their future , ” her daughter said .
“ She voted in every election , tribal , state or national .
My mother had that sense of duty . ”

Volkswagen Settles Emissions Charges Against Two Managers .
2020-05-20 14:22:37 +00:00 .
In return , prosecutors will drop the charges against Hans Dieter Pötsch , the chairman of Volkswagen ’s supervisory board , and Herbert Diess , the chief executive , the company said in a statement .
The company did not admit any wrongdoing .
The penalty is relatively modest compared to the over 20 billion euros that the company has paid in connection with the scandal .
The settlement removes a legal burden from Mr. Diess as he tries to steer Volkswagen through a brutal downturn .
Registrations of new passenger cars plummeted 76 percent in April , the biggest drop on record , because of coronavirus lockdowns , the European Association of Automobile Manufacturers said Tuesday .
Mr. Pötsch and Mr. Diess were charged last year with stock market manipulation because , prosecutors said , they had neglected their duty to tell shareholders that the company was about to be accused of using illegal software in diesel vehicles to conceal excess emissions .
Both managers denied wrongdoing and continued to do so Wednesday .
They had faced prison terms of up to five years if convicted .
German prosecutors continue to pursue criminal charges against dozens of other former Volkswagen executives accused of devising the illegal software and then staging a cover - up when regulators in the United States became suspicious .
The suspects in the case include Martin Winterkorn , the chief executive until his resignation days after the emissions cheating came to light .
He has also denied wrongdoing .
Volkswagen is still recovering from the financial damage that occurred after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency accused the carmaker in 2015 of illegally cloaking poisonous emissions for almost a decade .
The company later pleaded guilty to charges in the United States that it had programmed diesel cars to recognize when they were being tested for emissions compliance and crank up emissions controls in response .
During everyday driving , however , the antipollution equipment was dialed back to minimize wear and tear .
Mr. Pötsch was the chief financial officer at Volkswagen during the time that the illegal software was being developed and deployed , but he has maintained that he had no knowledge of it .
He was named chairman of the supervisory board in October 2015 , only weeks after the emissions cheating became public .
Mr. Pötsch is a close confidant of the Porsche and Piëch families , who own a majority of Volkswagen ’s voting shares .
Mr. Diess , a former BMW executive , arrived at Volkswagen in July 2015 , two months before the E.P.A. formally accused the company of wrongdoing .
Initially he was in charge of the Volkswagen division that makes Volkswagen brand cars .
The supervisory board named him chief executive in April 2018 .
Mr. Diess has been trying to remake Volkswagen as a leader in electric vehicles , while also trying to reassure American officials that the company has become more ethical and less scandal - prone — a condition of a plea bargain in the United States .
The resolution of the charges removes a major distraction for Mr. Diess as he faces the other challenges .
Volkswagen said Wednesday that the company , rather than the executives , would pay the fines of 4.5 million euros each .
The supervisory board said in a statement that it was “ convinced that Mr. Pötsch and Dr. Diess did not — in connection with the public prosecutor ’s office ’s accusation to which the market manipulation proceedings relate — breach any duties ” to the corporation .

Curtains for Broadway: No Shows Until Labor Day, at Least .
2020-05-12 15:36:55 +00:00 .
The Broadway League canceled performances through Sept. 6 and said it did not know when they might resume .
It ’s official : There will be no Broadway shows in New York this summer .
The Broadway League , a trade organization representing producers and theater owners , said Tuesday that Broadway ’s 41 theaters would remain shuttered at least through Labor Day .
The announcement is not a surprise ; the coronavirus pandemic is continuing to kill more than 150 people a day in New York state ( down from the peak of 800 ) , and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has put arts and entertainment in the last phase of his reopening plan .
It remains unclear when Broadway might reopen .
Many industry officials believe it will be considerably later than Labor Day .
The practical effect of Tuesday ’s announcement is that box offices and authorized ticket sellers should now refund or exchange tickets for shows through Sept. 6 .
Industry leaders have been extending the shutdown incrementally as a way of managing cash flow , as well as managing expectations .
“ As we ’ve been put in phase four of the governor ’s plan , we felt that Sept. 6 was a reasonable distance of time for refunds and exchanges , while we fully understand that we may not be back at that time , ” said Charlotte St. Martin , the Broadway League ’s president .
“ Broadway will be back when the governor tells us it ’s safe to be back — we ’re working closely with his office and with experts to know when that will be . ”
Theaters have been closed since March 12 , when Cuomo barred gatherings of more than 500 people .
The closing has disappointed legions of fans , cost thousands of people their jobs and prompted the jettisoning of two productions that were in previews but had not yet opened : the new Martin McDonaghtplay “ Hangmen , ” and a revival of Edward Albee ’s “ Who ’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? ”
Broadway is expected to be among the last sectors of the economy to reopen because its finances depend on assembling large crowds in confined spaces and its workplaces , onstage and backstage , place cast and crew in proximity to one another .
The industry has other challenges , too .
In recent years , its audiences have included large numbers of tourists and seniors , two groups that seem likely to return to Times Square more slowly than others .
And its ticket prices are high , which could be a deterrent if the economy stays weak and unemployment remains high .
In Britain , the Society of London Theater last week announced that shows in the West End have been canceled until June 28 .
“ This does not mean theaters will reopen on 29 June , ” the society ’s announcement said .
“ If further cancellations are necessary they will continue to be announced on a rolling basis . ”
PHOTO :
Duffy Square , in Midtown Manhattan , used to be thronged with Broadway ticketbuyers .
No more .
( PHOTOGRAPH BY Juan Arredondo for The New York Times FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES )

A ‘Big Fat Greek Wedding’ Will Have to Wait .
2020-05-09 10:03:26 +00:00 .
When John Damianos ’s cellphone began buzzing on the Dartmouth campus in September 2015 , he realized he was being FaceTimed by Vungelia Glyptis , a fellow student whom he had not talked to in two years .
Before answering the phone , Mr. Damianos was in a panic .
“ We had n’t spoken in quite a while , and I knew she was studying abroad in Copenhagen , ” he said .
“ My first thought was ‘ Oh my gosh , she must be in trouble . ’ ”
As it turned out , Ms. Glyptis was n’t in trouble .
She was merely bored .
“ I FaceTimed about 25 people that day , ” she said .
“ Only two of them got back to me , my mom and John Damianos . ”
Ms. Glyptis , 25 , a retail consultant in Secaucus , N.J. , for Ashley Stewart , and Mr. Damianos , also 25 , met at Dartmouth in September 2013 , when she was a freshman and he a sophomore .
( Mr. Damianos , an incoming internal medicine resident at Yale , is to receive a medical degree from Dartmouth in June . )
Mr. Damianos was also the president of the Hellenic Society and Orthodox Christian Fellowship .
When Ms. Glyptis responded to an email from Mr. Damianos , welcoming all the freshmen to Dartmouth , they decided to have lunch together at the campus dining hall .
They hit it off spectacularly and spoke for hours until they were told by dining hall staff that they had to leave because it was closing time .
Mr. Damianos later texted to a friend , “ I want to marry this girl , ” Ms. Glyptis called her mother to say she had met a “ nice Greek boy , but thought he talked too much . ”
They became friends , and Mr. Damianos , smitten from the start , tried several times to steer Ms. Glyptis in a romantic direction , but she refused to change course .
“ I was very focused on my schoolwork and a relationship was not something I was interested in at that time , ” she said .
“ He kept asking me out , and I kept telling him that I did n’t want to go down that path and stray from my studies . ”
“ There were hurt feelings on both sides , which I understood , ” she added , “ and we did n’t speak to each other for two years until I called him from Copenhagen . ”
They stayed in constant touch , and began dating again , which pleased their parents .
Ms. Glyptis is a daughter of Maria and George Glyptis of Seven Hills , Ohio .
Her parents are the owners of the Gyro George restaurants in northeast Ohio .
Mr. Damianos is a son of Francine Damianos and Dr. Aristotle Damianos of North Hampton , N.H. , whose father is a gastroenterologist at Atlantic Digestive Specialists in Portsmouth , N.H.
His mother is a retired clinical nurse who specialized in hematology at the Mary Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon , N.H.
The couple were engaged on April 20 , 2018 , and set a date for “ a big fat Greek wedding , ” as Ms. Glyptis jokingly put it , for May 9 , 2020 .
They managed to keep the date , but the coronavirus forced the couple to considerably scale down , from the 250 originally attendees to the nine guests that took part in the couple ’s ceremony at Saints Constantine and Helen Greek Orthodox Cathedral in Cleveland , where the bride grew up .
The Rev. Thomas Drenen , a Greek Orthodox priest , performed the ceremony .
“ Hopefully , we ’ll still have that big fat Greek wedding that we had been dreaming about , ” the bride said .
“ What ’s most important now is to keep everyone healthy and safe until this virus finally goes away . ”

No Debating Their Love .
2020-05-09 10:03:22 +00:00 .
A disagreement about the politics of confrontation was at the heart of the first conversation that Kelly Witwicki Faddegon and Jacy Reese Anthis had when they met , at the beginning of summer in 2014 .
She was living in a house in Oakland , Calif. , as an employee of a small animal - rights organization .
He was in the Bay Area for a summer internship researching the effectiveness of activism strategies , before his final year of college at the University of Texas .
He had become acquainted with members of the animal - rights group through his internship and met Ms. Witwicki Faddegon at a dinner party .
“ I was quite critical of the approach they took , and she was defending it , so our first encounter was a debate , ” he said , referring to the group members ’ tactics .
“ But I saw her as someone who had a lot of alignment with myself , who was more open - minded than some of the other people . ”
Both recognized that the spark between them was about more than politics .
“ We just hit it off really quickly , ” said Ms. Witwicki Faddegon , 28 .
“ I really loved what he brought out in me .
He made me more thoughtful about things I cared about .
He challenged me and I challenged him back as well . ”
The couple fell in love quickly , and he soon all but moved into the house she shared with her colleagues .
By the time he returned to Austin , Texas , that fall , the two had agreed to a long - distance relationship .
“ We clicked so well that we decided to make it work , ” he said .
After he graduated , he returned to the Bay Area , taking along his dog , Apollo .
The couple adopted two chickens that had been residents at an egg farm , and , more recently , they also adopted a dog from Korea .
Mr. Anthis , 27 , whose pen name is Jacy Reese , is now a research fellow at the Sentience Institute .
Ms. Witwicki Faddegon , who intends to take Anthis as her surname , was until December the group ’s executive director , and is now a user - experience engineer for software development at InRhythm , a technology consulting company in New York .
“ Kelly originally was not excited about marriage , ” Mr. Anthis said .
“ She thought a long - term romantic relationship did n’t need any kind of label , whereas I thought it would be nice to have the ring . ”
Her feelings , she said , “ came out of activist culture , not caring about norms or whatever .
Realizing that it might matter to him , I became more interested in it as a solidification of our partnership .
I felt how important it was to him , and so it became important to me . ”
In the acknowledgments section of his book , “ The End of Animal Farming , ” ( Beacon Press , 2018 )
he wrote , “ There ’s no better time and place than right here and right now to ask this question : Kelly , will you marry me ? ”
( He also proposed in a rowboat on the lake in Central Park , as she read the acknowledgments aloud . )
The couple had originally planned to marry in Mexico , but with the uncertainty that the coronavirus pandemic , they opted instead for a marriage closer to where they now live .
Then the Manhattan Marriage Bureau closed .
So on May 2 , the couple drove down to the Delaware Water Gap , and were married in a self - uniting ceremony on the Pennsylvania side of the river , with a marriage license obtained in Pennsylvania ’s Bucks County .
They brought two friends to witness .
In June , they intend to have a ceremony in California .
“ We have that total openness , complete trust .
If I fall — however I fall — he is going to be there , ” she said .
“ He ’s inspiring me to be my best self .
He makes me the person I want to be . ”

It was an On-Time Proposal .
2020-05-09 10:03:18 +00:00 .
Peter Harrison knew the newly opened TWA hotel at Kennedy Airport in Queens was just the place to propose to Jennifer Markas .
“ We both love architectural history and midcentury modern design , ’’ Ms. Markas said .
She packed 1960s - looking outfits for the one - night getaway there , including a Kate Spade red polka dot dress to go with the bright red décor of the sunken lounge at the hotel , previously the TWA terminal , which had opened in 1962 and was designed by Eero Saarinen .
Mr. Harrison , 37 , an adjunct professor of information technology systems at Baruch College , ordered a Kir Royale for Ms. Markas at the bar , her favorite drink .
Then they took a front - row seat facing the terminal ’s still - working arrivals and departures board .
“ The ticker started to tick , tick , ’’ said Ms. Markas , 35 , the executive director of the Women ’s Jewelry Association , a nonprofit group in Manhattan that supports women in the jewelry and watch industry .
Mr. Harrison got down on one knee at 7:20 p.m. and the board slowly printed out : “ Jenn , Will you marry me ?
This is Peter . ”
Mr. Harrison , a founder of homeBody , a tenant organizing app , is also running for Congress in New York ’s District 12 on the Homes Guarantee platform against Carolyn Maloney .
He graduated from the College of the Holy Cross and received a master ’s degree in urban planning from Columbia .
After the couple matched in August 2018 on the dating app Bumble , Mr. Harrison greeted Ms. Markas with a big hug at Pier i Cafe along the Hudson River in Manhattan .
They spoke for hours over frozen margaritas and appetizers .
“ I felt so excited about someone who had an equal amount of energy as I did , ” she said .
“ I ’m a Type A , a little fiery .
He ’s more relaxed . ”
Mr. Harrison walked her home to Central Park West and 104th Street , but did n’t mention for another month that he was running for office .
He did n’t want to scare her off , he said .
In June 2019 , he took her to Middle Village , Queens , to canvas door to door for Tiffany Cabán , a Democrat who was running for district attorney at the time .
“ I was nervous for the first couple of doors , ’’ Ms. Markas said .
By the fourth door she wholeheartedly jumped in , and chalked up a vote .
“ From that moment I knew I found the right partner to spend my life with , ” Mr. Harrison said .
Until the coronavirus pandemic outbreak , they knocked on a lot of doors together for his campaign .
“ Friends and family say if you can get through this moment , ” she said , referring to the coronavirus pandemic , “ you can get through your next 50 years . ”
On April 29 , the couple were married in Central Park at the Pool , near the Great Hill .
Ms. Markas wore a light blue dress by Alexia Maria , and Mr. Harrison donned a Liberty of London strawberry thief print tie and handkerchief .
At the ceremony were three of their closest friends , including Jonathan Hakakian , who was ordained by Open Ministry and served as the officiant .
Attending via Zoom were the bride ’s mother and two sisters from Southern California , the groom ’s parents and a sister from Avon , Conn. , another sister from Woburn , Mass. , and his brother in Abu Dhabi .
A larger ceremony , which had been planned for April 25 , is now scheduled for April 2021 at the Church of St. Paul the Apostle in New York .

Daisy Lucidi, a Radio Voice With a Telenovela Following, Dies at 90 .
2020-05-08 21:46:33 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
Daisy Lucidi got her start in Brazilian broadcasting in radio ’s earliest days , climbing on a box to reach the microphone and reciting poems at age 6 .
She became a well - known radio figure and then familiar to later generations of Brazilians who watched her on wildly popular telenovelas .
Ms. Lucidi , who parlayed that popularity into a career in politics , died on Thursday at a hospital in Rio de Janeiro .
She was 90 .
The cause was Covid-19 , her grandson Luiz Claudio Mendez , said .
Ms. Lucidi ’s career coincided with the golden age of Brazil ’s Radio Nacional , which captured the attention of a vast nation with its nine orchestras broadcasting from an ornate proscenium theater , where programs were performed before a live audience .
Ms. Lucidi spent 10 years at the network presenting the program “ Your Servant , Thank - You ! ” alongside Cesar Ladeira — one of Brazil ’s most famous radio personalities .
She was also a featured performer in many of the so - called radio theatricals , which later morphed into telenovelas , Latin America ’s soap opera genre .
In the 1960s Ms. Lucidi started appearing on television , but she returned to radio in 1971 to host a daily program that ran for 46 years , “ Hello Daisy ! ” which featured recipes and movie star gossip as well as a segment highlighting urban problems .
Ms. Lucidi would use her broadcast pulpit to call upon the authorities to fix them .
She credited the program with inspiring her move to politics .
She won a seat on Rio ’s city council in 1976 and then three terms in the local state assembly starting in 1980 .
Daisy Lucidi was born in Rio on Aug. 10 , 1929 , to Quinto Lucidi , a police official , and Clarice Lopez , a seamstress .
She was married for 64 years to the radio sportscaster Luiz Mendez , who died in 2011 .
The couple ’s son , Luiz Mendez Jr. , died in 2014 .
She is survived by two other grandchildren and three great - grandchildren .
Between 1948 and 2013 , Ms. Lucidi appeared in six Brazilian films .
After a long hiatus she returned to TV , appearing in the 2007 novella “ Tropical Paradise ” and in several more before making her final appearance in 2014 in “ Generation Brazil . ”
“ Everything the radio did , television copied , even the novelas , ” she said in a 2011 TV interview .
“
My passion is radio , even though I like television and think I do it well . ”

Stanley Moser, Virtuoso Encyclopedia Marketer, Dies at 88 .
2020-05-07 14:27:40 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
Stanley Moser had a knack for selling Funk Wagnalls encyclopedias and other affordable reference books to the American middle class .
One of his earliest great ideas was to price the first volume of a set at 9 cents .
Supermarket shoppers snapped them up , and then were hooked on buying the rest .
Mr. Moser spent three decades in the encyclopedia business , starting out in accounting , rising to become an executive and owner , and exiting just before the internet effectively marked an end to the era of the printed encyclopedia .
He died on April 14 in Fort Lee , N.J.
He was 88 .
His daughter , Elena Moser , said the cause was complications related to Covid-19 .
Nine days earlier , Mr. Moser ’s wife of 67 years , Marilyn , had died in the hospital of complications of the virus .
Funk Wagnalls was a mass - market product , an affordable alternative to the World Book or Encyclopaedia Britannica .
In a world without Google or Wikipedia , ownership of these comprehensive stores of facts and information was a point of pride for many middle - class American families .
Funk
Wagnalls volumes were typically sold in supermarkets as part of a “ book - a - week ” program .
When Mr. Moser came up with the idea of reducing the normal charge to just pennies for the first volume , “ People thought he was crazy for doing something like that , ” said Harvey Strackman , a former partner of Mr. Moser ’s at Funk Wagnalls .
He added : “ He was an innovator . ”
The entire 27 - volume Funk Wagnalls set — along with the free two - volume dictionary , another sweetener dreamed up by Mr. Moser — cost a little more than $ 100 .
By contrast , Encyclopaedia Britannica cost well over $ 1,000 in the mid-1980s .
Mr. Moser was born in the Bronx on Dec. 12 , 1931 .
His father , Isidore , was a postal worker .
His mother Ceil ( Kaufman ) Moser , had done piece work in a sewing pattern factory .
He grew up in the University Heights neighborhood , attending DeWitt Clinton High School , graduating from City College and becoming a certified public accountant .
Besides Ms. Moser , he is survived by another daughter , Gail Wichler ; a son , Niles Moser ; and eight grandchildren .
During the mid-1950s , Mr. Moser served in the U.S. Army and was stationed in Japan .
When he returned , he first worked at an accounting firm before , in 1958 , joining the Standard Reference Works Publishing Company , then the publisher of Funk Wagnalls encyclopedias .
Through a chain of mergers , Funk Wagnalls became a unit of the financial publisher Dun
Bradstreet by the early 1970s .
But the inventory - heavy business proved a poor fit with the parent company , a specialist in credit ratings guides and business directories .
In 1984 , Mr. Moser joined with a group of executives to buy the Funk Wagnalls unit for an undisclosed price .
It was a leveraged buyout , a transaction that involved significant amounts of debt to be repaid slowly over time .
But a deal Mr. Moser helped secure with the Children ’s Television Workshop to publish a 15 - volume Sesame Street series of stories and activities provided the cash to pay back the loans in a year , Ms. Moser said .
As computer technology emerged , the partners decided it was time get out .
In 1988 , they sold Funk Wagnalls to Field Publications , an educational publisher .
A price was not disclosed , but an analyst placed it between $ 70 million and $ 100 million .
“ We saw the handwriting on the wall , ” Mr. Strackman said .

Lesson of the Day: ‘Irish Return an Old Favor, Helping Native Americans Battling the Virus’ .
2020-05-07 13:50:50 +00:00 .
In 1847 the Choctaw people sent 170 dollars to help during the Irish potato famine .
Irish donors are citing that gesture as they help two Native American tribes during the Covid-19 pandemic .
In this lesson , you will learn about a unique bond between Native Americans and the Irish born of tragedy and shared suffering more than a century and a half ago .
In a Going Further activity , you will consider ways to “ pay it forward ” to others during this pandemic .
Warm Up
What acts of kindness have you heard about or participated in during the coronavirus pandemic ?
What acts of generosity have you heard about in your community or anywhere else in which someone has helped others during the coronavirus crisis ?
Who was on the receiving end of those acts ?
How do you think the person or people in the helping role may also have benefited from the experience ?
What experiences have you had in your life with volunteering , donating or otherwise assisting others ?
Do you think the act of giving was beneficial to you in any way ?
If so , how ?
Have you heard the term “ paying it forward , ” in which a person who has been the recipient of a generous act does a similar kindness for someone else , often a stranger ?
When have you been the recipient of kindness from a stranger ?
When have you done something generous for someone you did n’t know ?
Do you think there is truth in the adage “ it ’s better to give than to receive ” ?
Explain .
Questions for Writing and Discussion
Read the article , then answer the following questions : 1 .
Why are Irish people giving to a charity drive for two Native American tribes suffering in the Covid-19 pandemic ?
What is the connection between the people of these geographically distant nations ?
2 .
How has the coronavirus affected tribal lands in the United States ?
What conditions on these lands cause the virus to spread with exceptional speed in places like the Navajo Nation ?
3 .
What was the Irish potato famine ?
How do you think the Choctaw , prisoners in Sing Sing , former slaves in the Caribbean and convicts on a prison ship in London all knew about the crisis happening in Ireland in the 1840s , long before the internet was invented ?
4 .
What was the Trail of Tears ?
What is the connection between this terrible history and the Choctaw Nation ’s donation to the Irish people during the famine ?
5 .
Why has the donation by the Choctaw resonated so much in Ireland more than 170 years later ?
Why has the experience of the famine made Irish people “ more likely to make common cause with other marginalized people ” ?
6 .
What is your reaction to the story ?
Does it give you greater hope during a time of great suffering , fear and loss ?
What strengths is the coronavirus revealing in our society ?
What other examples of kindness like this can you think of ?
Have you ever read about , witnessed or even participated in a moment of shared humanity like this one when one community came to the aid of another , even if the people ’s beliefs or backgrounds were different ?
Going Further
While there has been great suffering , loss and fear brought about by the pandemic , there ’s been an outpouring of support from everyday citizens who want to help others during this time of need .
Here are some helpful resources from The Times :
After conducting your research , choose one way you , along with your family and friends , might help others during the coronavirus pandemic .

Dr. Barry Webber, Surgeon Who Stuck With His Patients, Dies at 67 .
2020-05-06 20:44:02 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
Life flowed through Dr. Barry Webber ’s hands .
A general surgeon at New York hospitals for 24 years , he salvaged lives with them .
An avid rock climber , he applied them to the rocky crevices of the Shawangunk Mountains north of New York City .
A lover of nature , he used his hands to plant trees .
A tinkerer , he worked on objects — whether a computer or a car .
“ There was a certain physicality to life that he really appreciated , ” his wife , Harriet Clark Webber , said .
Dr. Webber died on April 18 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan .
He was 67 .
The cause was complications of the new coronavirus , Ms. Clark Webber said .
Dr. Webber worked at Mount Sinai Queens as a surgeon , shuttling among patients , in the emergency room and the operating theater during the initial onslaught of Covid-19 admissions , she said .
He had expressed fears of catching the virus from his duties .
“ If it ’s going to get anybody , it ’s going to be me , ” he said , according to Ms. Clark Webber .
She said she was convinced that her husband caught the virus at the hospital , where doctors were required to wear protective face masks starting March 17 , 10 days before Dr. Webber fell ill .
Barry Webber was born on March 12 , 1953 , in Los Angeles .
His father , Kenneth Webber , who was Canadian , worked as a medical equipment salesman ; his English - born mother , Sybil Webber , was a film processor .
Barry spent his childhood in Los Angeles .
Described by his brother Michael as a free spirit , Dr. Webber spent his adolescent years bouncing around .
Following an array of high schools — a military academy , an experimental alternative school , a year at Loyola High School in Los Angeles — he spent time in a Buddhist monastery and hiked in the Pacific Northwest before enrolling in Occidental College .
He graduated with a degree in music in 1978 .
After realizing his dream of becoming a classical pianist was not to be , he set his sights on medicine and enrolled at Georgetown University ’s medical school , graduating in 1982 .
After graduation Dr. Webber enrolled as a surgical resident at Roosevelt Hospital ( now Mount Sinai West ) .
Mr. Webber met his wife , who was a dancer with American Ballet Theater , in 1983 when he was studying as a resident with the company ’s in - house orthopedist , Dr. William Hamilton , and they began dating years later .
The two married in 1996 .
Dr. Webber is also survived by their two sons , Duncan and Michael .
“ I was most proud of him because he was very well rounded , ” Ms. Clark Webber said .
“ He had an understanding of the big picture .
Barry was the guy you wanted in the operating room at all times . ”
She added : “ He died a hero .
Selfless and loving .
That ’s how I will remember him . ”

Dallas Salon Owner Is Jailed for Defying Order to Stay Closed .
2020-05-06 02:00:47 +00:00 .
A Dallas salon owner who reopened her business on April 24 , defying state and county orders for nonessential establishments to remain closed because of the coronavirus pandemic , was sentenced on Tuesday to a week in jail and was fined at least $ 3,500 .
The salon owner , Shelley Luther , was found to be criminally and civilly in contempt of court by Judge Eric V. Moyé of 14th Civil District Court in Dallas County , who said during a hearing that Ms. Luther had acted selfishly when she resumed operations at Salon À La Mode .
Ms. Luther ’s salon operated for seven days after the city of Dallas obtained a restraining ordered against Ms. Luther , 46 , according to Judge Moyé , who said that Ms. Luther could avoid jail time if she ceased her activities .
He also called on her to apologize to the elected officials whose orders she flouted , saying that until a vaccine for the virus is developed , citizens must obey emergency orders .
“ Failure to do so will only have catastrophic consequences , ” Judge Moyé said , “ and those reach far beyond the exigencies of one family or one business . ”
But Ms. Luther said that she would not comply with stay - at - home orders and that she had no regrets about reopening after a closure of more than a month .
“ I have to disagree with you , sir , when you say that I ’m selfish , because feeding my kids is not selfish , ” Ms. Luther said .
“ So , sir , if you think the law ’s more important than kids getting fed , then please go ahead with your decision .
But I am not going to shut the salon . ”
The hearing , conducted with strict social distancing measures in place , came just three days before hair and nail salons and barbershops will be allowed to reopen in Texas as certain social distancing restrictions are lifted by Gov. Greg Abbott , a Republican .
Ms. Luther was taken into custody after the hearing , where she wore in a mask .
Judge Moyé also wore a mask and heard some testimony through a Zoom videoconference .
Some of the court officials also participated through Zoom .
Warren V. Norred , a lawyer for Ms. Luther , said in an interview on Tuesday night that he planned to appeal the ruling immediately .
He suggested that politics , not the spread of the virus , had prompted Judge Moyé to mete out jail time for Ms. Luther .
“ It ’s breaking Shelley Luther , ” he said .
“ That ’s what this court wants to do . ”
Mr. Norred said it would be particularly tragic if Ms. Luther contracted the coronavirus while in jail .
On April 24 , police officers visited Ms. Luther ’s 19 - seat salon and issued her a citation for reopening her business , which had been closed since March 22 .
The next day , Ms. Luther appeared at a protest against stay - at - home orders in Frisco , Texas , where she tore up a cease - and - desist letter sent to her by a Dallas County judge .
Last Friday , Mr. Abbott lifted a stay - at - home order in Texas and allowed shopping malls , restaurants and other businesses to reopen at a limited capacity .
That same day , Mr. Abbott told lawmakers that he expected the coronavirus to spread as businesses reopened , a comment that drew criticism from Democrats .
Mr. Abbott ’s office did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Tuesday night .
Also on Tuesday , the authorities in West Texas announced criminal charges against eight people , including the owner of a bar in Ector County that had reopened in defiance of the governor ’s emergency order .
Manny Fernandez contributed reporting .

Filmmaker Who Mocked Egyptian President Dies in Prison .
2020-05-02 12:49:58 +00:00 .
CAIRO — An Egyptian filmmaker imprisoned over a music video that mocked President Abdel Fattah el - Sisi died at a maximum - security facility on Friday after two years in detention without trial , his lawyer said .
Mr. Habash was imprisoned in March 2018 after he directed a music video by an exiled musician , Ramy Essam , that mocked Mr. el - Sisi as a “ date . ”
When the video spread widely on social media , Mr. Habash was arrested and jailed , said his lawyer , Ahmed el - Khawaga .
The writer of the song , Galal el - Behairy , was also arrested and charged , as was a third man who set up Mr. Essam ’s Facebook page .
In August 2018 , a military court sentenced Mr. el - Behairy to three years ’ imprisonment .
In 2016 , a comedian who played a prank on the police in Tahrir Square , the site of the Arab Spring protests in 2011 , was arrested and remains in jail .
Numerous other Egyptian actors , writers , satirists and sports stars have fled into exile to avoid Mr. el - Sisi ’s wrath , and some have been prosecuted in absentia .
Mr. Essam , the singer , became popular during the Arab Spring , but later fled to Sweden after he was briefly detained .
He hired Mr. Habash , who had worked with other musicians , to make his video about Mr. el - Sisi .
In a letter from prison in October that was later published by friends on Facebook , Mr. Habesh spoke of his despair .
“ Prison does n’t kill , loneliness does , ” he wrote , describing what he called his struggle to “ stop yourself going mad or dying slowly because you ’ve been thrown in a room two years ago and forgotten . ”
Mr. el - Sisi released 4,000 prisoners last month , in a traditional gesture of clemency for Sinai Liberation Day , marking Israel ’s withdrawal from Sinai in 1982 .
But those released were convicted criminals , and political prisoners were not included .
Lawyers , lawmakers and translators are among those who have been arrested by the security services in recent months , including Kholoud Sayed Amer , the head of translation at the prestigious Library of Alexandria .
Alaa Abd El Fattah , a prominent political prisoner , started a hunger strike on April 12 to protest what he called his unjust detention .
He is subsisting on water and tea , said his aunt , the writer Ahdaf Soueif , who was herself arrested in March for protesting about his conditions .
Although President Trump has generally offered unstinting praise to Mr. el - Sisi , the death of an imprisoned American , Moustafa Kassem , in January caused a rare chill in relations between the two countries .
Mr. Kassem died after six years in prison and despite pleas from Vice President Mike Pence for his release .
He had been on a hunger strike at the time of his death , and the State Department later considered cutting military aid to Egypt in retaliation for the death .
Egypt sent a planeload of medical aid to the United States in late April , in what many analysts viewed as a gesture of coronavirus diplomacy .
But the issue of prison conditions remains an American priority .
In a call on April 23 with Egypt ’s foreign minister , Secretary of State Mike Pompeo “ emphasized that detained U.S. citizens be kept safe and provided consular access during the Covid-19 pandemic , ” a State Department spokeswoman said .
Nada Rashwan contributed reporting .

Kim Jong-un Resurfaces, State Media Says, Ending Weeks of Health Rumors .
2020-05-01 23:00:17 +00:00 .
SEOUL , South Korea — North Korea ’s leader , Kim Jong - un , resurfaced in public view on Friday , the North ’s state news media reported Saturday , contraverting three weeks of rumors and unconfirmed news reports that he was in grave danger after undergoing heart surgery .
He appeared at a ceremony at a factory in Sunchon , the North ’s state media said .
The report has not been independently confirmed .
Mr. Kim , 36 , last appeared publicly on April 11 .
Speculation about his health — and about who would take over the hermetic country with a nuclear arsenal should he become incapacitated or die — began swirling after Mr. Kim missed the state celebrations of his country ’s biggest holiday on April 15 .
On that day the country marks the birthday of his grandfather , Kim Il - sung , the founder of North Korea .
The rumors had subsequently gone into overdrive , claiming that he was “ in grave danger , ” in a “ vegetative state ” after botched heart - valve surgery , or in quarantine after contracting Covid-19 .
Other reports said that China had sent doctors to Pyongyang to save him .
While reporting Mr. Kim ’s reappearance , the North ’s state news agency did not carry any photos of him , as it usually has in his past public appearances .
The lack of photographic evidence may keep the rumor mill churning over what physical condition Mr. Kim is in .
The North Korean news agency said Mr. Kim cut the ribbon at a completed fertilizer factory .
“ All the participants again burst into thunderous cheers of ‘ hurrah ! ’ ”
the news agency said .
The report said that Mr. Kim “ warmly acknowledged the builders and masses raising thunderous cheers ” and looked around the factory , accompanied by senior Workers ’ Party officials , including his only sister , Kim Yo - jong , it said .
The South Korean government did not immediately comment on the report , but it has pushed back against recent speculation that Mr. Kim was in poor health .
Its unification minister , Kim Yeon - chul , had called the reports “ fake news , ” saying that South Korea could say “ confidently ” that there was no evidence to confirm rumors that Mr. Kim was gravely ill .
Amid the reports , North Korea had continued to send out letters and gifts to foreign leaders and domestic workers under Mr. Kim ’s name .
The rumor mill about Mr. Kim ’s fate had been fueled by the fact that North Korea had not reported a public appearance by its leader for weeks .
Nor had it responded to lurid claims about his health .
On Friday , Ji Seong - ho , a North Korean defector who won a seat in the South Korean parliament through the April 15 elections , told reporters that he was “ 99 percent sure ” that Mr. Kim had died last weekend .
This is not the first time Mr. Kim had disappeared from public view for weeks at a time or faced intense speculation about his health .
And the information vacuum surrounding the doings of North Korean leaders leaves fertile ground for misinformation to spread .
Some past rumors about the health of North Korean leaders have indeed proved true , like speculation that Mr. Kim ’s father , Kim Jong - il , had a stroke in 2008 .
But most turned out to be groundless .
In 1986 , a South Korean newspaper reported a “ world scoop ” claiming that Mr. Kim ’s grandfather , then - President Kim Il - sung , had died in an armed attack .
A smiling Kim Il - sung resurfaced two days later .
In 2014 , Kim Jong - un disappeared for more than a month , prompting rumors that he might have been deposed in a coup .
North Korean media later showed him walking with a cane ; South Korean intelligence said he had undergone ankle surgery .

Sister Patricia McGowan, Dedicated Teacher, Dies at 80 .
2020-04-30 21:26:16 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
Sister Patricia McGowan ’s teaching style was distinct : She had the ability to be stern without ever losing empathy .
Sister Patsy , as her students called her , was known for the phrase “ Deal with it , ” but it was uttered without harshness and with a note of understanding .
“ She was tough but good , ” her niece Dr. Amy Fenwick , a trauma physician , said .
Sister McGowan , whose 60 - year teaching career ranged from elementary school grade to the college level , died on April 19 at St. John ’s Riverside Hospital in Yonkers , N.Y.
The cause was complications of Covid-19 , Dr. Fenwick said .
Sister McGowan joined the Sisters of Charity of New York at 17 and began her teaching career in 1959 at St. Brigid ’s elementary school in Manhattan , where she taught fourth - graders .
She later taught journalism and communications at the College of Mount Saint Vincent in the Bronx , her alma mater , where she lived in faculty housing .
As the years went by and the number of students she crossed paths with increased , Sister McGowan remained particularly good at remembering their names , as well as the names of their siblings , many of whom she had also taught .
And many of her former students stayed in touch .
One was a nurse at the hospital where she died and was with her at the end .
Patricia Elizabeth McGowan was born on June 5 , 1939 , in Manhattan , the youngest of four children of Cormac and Anna McGowan .
Her father , an Irish immigrant , worked in the insurance business and managed a bar .
She attended Cathedral High School in Manhattan and , after graduating from Mount Saint Vincent , earned a master ’s degree in education from Hunter College in Manhattan , a master ’s in journalism from New York University and a doctorate in higher and adult education from Columbia University ’s Teachers College .
Mount Saint Vincent asked Sister McGowan to return as a journalism professor in 1981 , and she went on to teach there full time for 28 years , nine of them as chairwoman of its communications department .
She became a part - time instructor in 2009 and retired in 2019 .
She is survived by her sister Nancy Kavanaugh .
Sister McGowan was known for a quick sense of humor .
On one occasion a police officer yelled at her for jaywalking in the Battery Park area .
Wearing everyday clothes , she yelled back , “ Do n’t you have anything better to do than to yell at a nun ? ”
Her knowledge of New York was encyclopedic .
Everywhere she went , she had a memory or a fact to share about the city .
When not teaching she painted in water colors and could devour 10 books a week .
When one of her brothers died of cancer at 46 , her relationship with his four children , all under 18 , strengthened .
She became an essential part of their lives .
When they went off to college , she visited them regularly .
“ She was part of the glue that kept everybody together , ” Dr. Fenwick said .

Pegu Club, the Pioneering Manhattan Cocktail Bar, Won’t Reopen .
2020-04-30 14:58:47 +00:00 .
Pegu Club , the SoHo bar that kicked the cocktail revival in New York City into high gear when it opened in 2005 and quickly became one of the most influential cocktail bars in the world , will not reopen , a victim of the citywide restaurant and bar shutdown in the coronavirus pandemic .
“ It is with a heavy heart that we have to ring the bell for last call , ” Audrey Saunders , the bar ’s co - founder , wrote in a letter to friends and colleagues on Thursday .
She said she had intended to keep the bar open at least until its lease ran out on Oct. 31 , but “ Covid-19 has taken every bit of the life we had out of us , and a soft reopening following NYC guidelines would not be enough to sustain us entering into the summer months . ”
Even if it had reopened , she wrote , social distancing orders would allow the bar to serve only half its normal number of customers .
The bar would have celebrated its 15th anniversary in August .
Ms. Saunders , who lives in Washington State , did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment .
Julie Reiner , a partner in Pegu Club , confirmed the closing .
When Pegu Club opened , there were few craft cocktail bars around the city .
The growing movement coalesced around the large , second - story bar on Houston Street .
Though Pegu Club was opened by a group of partners , Ms. Saunders emerged as the bar ’s figurehead .
A bartender who had worked at Blackbird ( with her mentor , Dale DeGroff ) , Beacon , Tonic and Bemelmans Bar , she drew from the best mixology talent in the city for the opening bartending staff :
Toby Maloney , Phil Ward , Jim Meehan , Brian Miller , Chad Solomon — all of whom would eventually open their own cocktail bars .
Ms. Saunders became renowned for the seriousness she brought to her craft , testing dozens of versions of the same cocktail before finding the one she deemed worthy of being the Pegu Club version .
She fought to get products then unavailable in New York that she felt were needed to make the best drinks possible , such as Laird ’s bonded apple brandy and Rittenhouse rye whiskey .
The menu was a mix of forgotten classics ( including the Pegu Club , an old gin cocktail named after a British club in Rangoon ) and her own modern inventions , such as the Gin - Gin Mule , Old Cuban and Little Italy , which went on to become modern classics in their own right .
The staff was at the front line of a yearslong battle to recalibrate the public ’s taste , steering then away from safe choices like a vodka and soda or rum and Coke , and introducing them to pisco punch and the 50/50 martini ( a vermouth - heavy variation of the martini that was popularized there ) .
As the cocktail boom continued and relaxed its rules and attitudes a bit , Pegu Club remained true to its original standards , the menu rarely changing , the bartenders forever in vests , everything just so .
“ I wanted to change things , ” Ms. Saunders said in 2016 .
“ I wanted to change drinking history .
This is a revolution .
I knew that if we did n’t do it right then people would be , ‘ Oh , it was n’t all that . ’ ”

Opinion | Two of My Colleagues Died of Covid-19 .
2020-04-29 23:03:17 +00:00 .
SOUDERTON , Pa. —
On a normal day , work at a meatpacking plant is not easy .
The slaughterhouse is boiling hot .
People who are n’t used to the temperature can feel as if they are experiencing high blood pressure .
The freezer is super cold and will amplify any flulike symptoms .
Workers wear as many layers as they can to stay warm , but it is difficult .
In the past month , two of my co - workers died from Covid-19 .
The company instituted protective measures , but it was too late .
The virus spread quickly through our communities .
I work in a plant with 1,400 employees .
A majority of us are immigrants .
Companywide communications are translated into Spanish , Arabic and Haitian Creole .
Our work is essential to feeding the nation , yet plants like mine have become hot spots for the virus .
On Tuesday , President Trump said that he would declare meat processing plants “ critical infrastructure ” to avoid a shortage in the supply chain .
Already , thousands of meatpacking workers across the country have become sick at work .
Our union , the United Food Commercial Workers , demanded at the national level that meatpacking plants restructure themselves to accommodate safety measures and provide personal protective equipment to all employees .
Our plant temporarily closed on April 2 , before the deaths .
At that time , 19 people had tested positive .
JBS remodeled the floor in line with coronavirus safety measures secretary of health for Pennsylvania , Dr. Rachel Levine , ordered .
The doors reopened on April 20 .
Before this closure , people had started to panic .
Social distancing was limited .
Employees did n’t cover their mouths .
In meatpacking plants , workers are piled up on top of one another , often touching because there are so many of us .
Many decided to stay at home on leave because they were afraid of becoming infected or of spreading the coronavirus to their families .
In this pandemic we have to live day to day .
Now we feel a bit more secure .
Employees ’ temperatures are taken the moment they walk inside to start their shift .
Each person is given a mask and a face shield to wear .
There are more hand sanitizer stations , and workers are given time to wash their hands .
In the cafeteria , the tables are separated so that people do n’t have contact .
On the floor there are guides so that people know how far apart they should be from one another .
There are signs in multiple languages , reminding people to wash their hands often , wear a mask and stay at least six feet apart .
Supervisors monitor the flow of employees to make sure there is distancing in the hallways and break areas .
The two people we lost to the coronavirus were most likely exposed to the virus at work before the factory shut down .
One , Wilbert Rivera , 49 , was already fighting cancer and was on leave .
The other was our principal union steward , a 70 - year - old Haitian man named Enock Benjamin .
He worked at the plant for 12 years and did so much to defend the rights of his colleagues .
He was diabetic and suffered from asthma .
He loved to work , and he worked until the last moment he could .
They will not be forgotten .
During this pandemic , we are living day to day .
We do n’t know the new dangers that we will face in the future .
We have to act quickly to protect our essential workers .

Milena Jelinek, Screenwriter and Educator, Dies at 84 .
2020-04-29 19:57:47 +00:00 .
Milena Jelinek spent her youth in Czechoslovakia learning to write under the tutelage of novelists like Milan Kundera and protesting Communism with friends like Vaclav Havel .
She was thrown out of film school in Prague for a movie she wrote called “ An Easy Life , ” which was deemed subversive .
After fleeing to New York , she became a tough - love screenwriting professor at Columbia University , where she was known to warn that becoming a writer makes you fat and a drunk .
That mix of piercing critique , zestful living and an unflinching dedication to story defined Professor Jelinek ’s life .
She died of complications of the novel coronavirus on April 15 in Manhattan , her son , William Jelinek , said .
She was 84 .
As a screenwriter , Professor Jelinek was best known for “ Forgotten Light , ” directed by Vladimir Michalek and released in 1996 .
The story of a young Roman Catholic priest ’s effort to save his church from being closed during the Communist era and his love for a dying parishioner , “ Forgotten Light ” is regarded as one of the greatest Czech movies of the last three decades .
Professor Jelinek influenced generations of students from all over the world with what a colleague at Columbia ’s School of the Arts described as “ a European combination of old - world elegance and postwar wariness . ”
Hope Dickson Leach , a screenwriter , director and former student , said Professor Jelinek had never talked down to anyone and had always sought to help students find their own voice .
On the first day of class , the professor sought to allay the students ’ insecurities by telling them to think of themselves as writers , not students .
“ She made it clear that the only qualification for being a writer was that you decided you were one , and you wrote , ” Ms. Dickson Leach said .
Professor Jelinek ’s own path was one of Cold War twists and turns .
The daughter of a sawmill owner , Milena Tobolova was born on Aug. 19 , 1935 , in Prestice , a small town about 70 miles southwest of Prague .
She initially studied languages but transferred in 1955 to the Film and Television Academy ( FAMU ) , where Mr. Kundera taught world literature .
She first rose to prominence with the script for “ An Easy Life , ” whose depiction of a rock ’ n ’ roll - fueled student life , deemed decadent by the authorities , led to her expulsion from the film school .
At its premiere in 1957 , the director Milos Forman introduced her to a childhood friend , Frederick Jelinek , a pioneering computer engineer who would spend the next three years trying to get her out of Prague .
When he succeeded in 1961 , they married , started a family and settled in Ithaca , N.Y. , where Professor Jelinek made three short , absurdist films about trapped housewives while her husband taught at Cornell University .
They later landed in New York City at a moment when Mr. Forman and another Czech émigré , Frank Daniel , were building the graduate film program at Columbia .
She joined its faculty in the 1980s , teaching writing and script analysis and guiding students to find the triumphs and flaws in everything from “ Toy Story ” to “ North by Northwest ” and “ Tootsie . ”
Her son said she had usually started out every semester despairing about her students ’ lack of talent , then came around to think they were all terrific — well , with the exception of one or two .
He said his mother could always see the bleak and the beautiful .
“ Buck up , ” she used to tell her grandchildren .
“ Tomorrow is never promised . ”

Tadashi Tsufura, Internment Survivor and New York Principal, Dies at 89 .
2020-04-29 17:31:22 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
Soon after World War II began , some of Tadashi Tsufura ’s friends in Parlier , Calif. , turned against him .
He was 11 when one classmate mocked him for his Japanese heritage .
“ ‘ Hey , you ’re a Jap , you ’re an enemy , ’ and I knocked a kid down , ” Mr. Tsufura told Tessaku , an oral history project about Japanese - Americans , in 2017 .
“ The principal came and knocked me down . ”
Less than a year later , on his 12th birthday — he , his parents and two older brothers were forced by the United States to move to one of the two Gila River internment camps in a desert valley in Arizona , one family among about 120,000 people of Japanese ancestry interned during the war .
“ It was an ego - destroying experience , ” he told The Daily News of New York in 1966 , “ and it is this that has made me determined to help others to use their suffering as youths for constructive goals . ”
Mr. Tsufura found his avenue to help youngsters as a teacher in New York City public schools and one of the system ’s first Japanese - American principals .
( He once said he was the only Asian - American principal in the United States . )
Mr. Tsufura died of the novel coronavirus on March 29 at Mount Sinai Queens Hospital in Astoria , five days after his wife , Mabel ( Murakami ) Tsufura , a home economics teacher , became one of 13 people to die of the disease over a 24 - hour period at Elmhurst Hospital , said their daughter , Lisa Tsufura .
He was 89 .
“ My dad took my mom to the hospital , ” Ms. Tsufura said by phone .
“ But she did n’t know he had gone to the hospital .
She was unconscious by then . ”
He is also survived by another daughter , Eve Tsufura , and a grandson .
Mr. Tsufura was born on Sept. 17 , 1930 , in Los Angeles and moved to Parlier , a farming community near Fresno , when he was about six .
His father , Shosetsu Tsufura , a Buddhist minister , and his mother , Midori ( Kamamoto ) Tsufura , a teacher , were born in Japan .
He and his parents left the camp after two years and moved to Seabrook , N.J. , where an industrialist employed former internees in a vegetable farming and packing business .
But after arriving in New Jersey , his mother — depressed by her incarceration and her older sons entering the Army — was institutionalized and eventually lobotomized .
Mr. Tsufura fought in the Army on the front lines of the Korean War from 1951 to 1953 .
After his discharge , he earned a bachelor ’s degree in chemical engineering from Fenn College ( now Cleveland State University ) .
Unhappy as a chemical engineer , he left for New York City , where one of his brothers lived .
Learning of a teacher shortage in the public schools in the early 1960s , he took education courses at Brooklyn College and started a new career .
He taught math in two Manhattan schools and was named the principal of P.S. 41 in Greenwich Village , where he stayed for eight years before becoming a deputy superintendent of District 3 on the Upper West Side .
He retired in 1988 .
Nancy Tenenberg , a former student who is an acting teacher in Pittsburgh , said by phone that Mr. Tsufura was more than just a great algebra teacher .
He had , Ms. Tenenberg said , “ a nose for the kids who were on the fringe , like a ‘ Good Will Hunting ’ thing , kids who needed an adult . ”

Irrfan Khan, Bollywood Star and Crossover Hollywood Actor, Dies at 53 .
2020-04-29 12:30:10 +00:00 .
NEW DELHI — Irrfan Khan , the celebrated Indian actor who became a crossover star in Hollywood , died on Wednesday in a Mumbai hospital .
He was 53 .
Mr. Khan ’s death was confirmed by a spokesman for the actor .
He had been battling cancer and was admitted to the hospital for a colon infection last week .
Mr. Khan started his career playing small roles on Indian television in the 1980s .
He found critical and commercial success later in life , with roles in movies like “ Slumdog Millionaire , ” “ Life of Pi ” and “ The Namesake . ”
In India , he is best known for his performances in “ Maqbool , ” “ Haasil , ” “ Paan Singh Tomar , ” “ Piku , ” “ The Lunchbox ” and “ Hindi Medium . ”
He was at home in commercial and art - house projects , and stood out in Bollywood for his versatile roles and nuanced performances .
He first gained the notice of international audiences in the BAFTA - winning film “ The Warrior ” released in 2001 .
In the film , he played the lead role of a renegade warrior in feudal India .
He also appeared in blockbusters like “ Jurassic World ” ( 2015 ) , and the screen adaptation of Dan Brown ’s “ Inferno ” ( 2016 ) .
Mr. Khan ’s performance as an investigator of a double homicide in the 2015 Hindi movie “ Talvar ” prompted a Times critic , Rachel Saltz , to write : “ Mr. Khan is this movie ’s best weapon .
Playing a familiar character type , the world - weary detective , he gives a performance , full of small , sly details , that does n’t seem familiar at all . ”
Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote on Twitter : “ Irrfan Khan ’s demise is a loss to the world of cinema and theatre .
He will be remembered for his versatile performances across different mediums . ”
Irrfran Khan was born Sahabzade Irfan Ali Khan on Jan. 7 1967 , to Saeeda Begum and Yaseen Khan , a middle - class couple in Rajasthan , India .
He was one of four children , and described his childhood as a happy one of kite flying , cricket playing and hunting trips with his father .
His father died when Mr. Khan was 18 , and he said his mother hoped that he would carry on with the family business and stay close to home .
But Mr. Khan had other plans .
He won a coveted spot in the acting program of the prestigious National School of Drama in New Delhi and never looked back .
In March 2018 , he was told he had a rare neuroendocrine tumor and spent several months in London undergoing treatment .
He disclosed the news of his illness via a statement on Twitter shortly after his diagnosis .
Mr. Khan appeared to have recovered from the cancer and started shooting his last film , “ Angrezi Medium , ” in 2019 , a sequel to his 2017 hit “ Hindi Medium .
The film was released last month , shortly before the coronavirus lockdown started in India , but Mr. Khan was not part of the promotions for the film .
His wife , Sutapa Sikdar , and their two sons survive him .
In a message released with the film ’s trailer , the actor said , “ I truly wanted to promote this film as passionately as we made it , but there are some ‘ unwanted guests ’ in my body and they ’re keeping me busy .
I ’ll keep you informed on that front . ”

Late Night Takes Mike Pence to Task for Not Wearing a Face Mask .
2020-04-29 06:15:24 +00:00 .
Welcome to Best of Late Night , a rundown of the previous night ’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy .
If you ’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV , sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox .
“ Yes , it ’s being reported that Trump ignored 12 coronavirus warnings in his daily intelligence briefings .
And honestly , I ’m not surprised .
I mean , if they gave him the information in a briefing , of course he ’s not going to get it , because if you really want the president to pay attention , you had to make it kid - friendly and then it sinks in .
[ imitating Trump ] ‘ So what you ’re saying is the sick duck got all the other duckies sick and now that duck has to sit by himself until he ’s not sick anymore .
I get it — sad duck . ”
— TREVOR NOAH
“ We ’re now learning that as far back as January , ‘ the president ’s intelligence briefing book repeatedly cited the virus threat . ’
Well , there ’s your problem — those are three of Trump ’s least - favorite words : ‘ intelligence , ’ ‘ briefing , ’ and ‘ book . ’
If they really wanted him to pay attention , they should have called it his ‘ daily pornographic hamburger fire truck . ’ ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
“ The president does n’t read books .
If you wanted him to take it seriously , you should have him tweeted him like a gif of a dancing cheeseburger . ”
— JIMMY KIMMEL “ But it ’s understandable that Donald Trump was n’t paying attention .
He was very busy at the time .
He had to play golf on January 4 , January 5 , January 18 , 19th , February 1 , 2nd , 15th , March 7 , March 8 — what ’s he supposed to do , miss his tee times ? ”
— JIMMY KIMMEL
The Bits Worth Watching
Joel McHale explained how he came to host Netflix ’s “ Tiger King ” aftershow while on “ Conan ” on Tuesday night .
What We ’re Excited About on Wednesday Night
Former presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg will pop by “ A Late Show ” on Wednesday night .
Also , Check This Out

A Free Wedding in the Nick of Time .
2020-04-25 09:00:31 +00:00 .
Maggie Moore and Brandon Baez may be young , but waiting to get married until the world got a handle on the coronavirus was not in their plans .
“ With Brandon being in the military , there ’s no telling where he ’s going to be a year from now , ” said Ms. Moore , 18 , of Big Island , Va.
“ We thought it was important to go ahead and do it now . ”
Mr. Baez , 21 , is a Navy seaman stationed in Dahlgren , Va. ; Ms. Moore is a certified nursing assistant at the Oakwood Health and Rehabilitation Center in Bedford , Va.
Before social distancing restrictions set in , they were planning a small wedding near Ms. Moore ’s home .
But not so small that their families and a handful of their friends from Liberty High School in Bedford , where they met in 2017 , could n’t attend .
“ We were just getting ready to make a down payment on a place when the corona stuff came out and the governor said weddings have to be less than 10 people , ” Ms. Moore said .
The venue they had chosen was n’t offering discounts for couples who planned to forge ahead with pared - down weddings .
So they regrouped .
“ We were n’t sure what we were going to do , ” she said .
“ Then I found out this amazing thing that was happening for brides . ”
Earlier this month , Glencliff Manor , an events space in Rustburg , Va. , announced that it would put on free , socially distant weddings for couples whose wedding plans were upended by the virus .
Ms. Moore applied right away .
“ I had been to weddings there before , and it ’s beautiful , and our immediate families could still be there , so we considered that a blessing , ” she said .
Though Ms. Moore is just a few months past legal marriage age in Virginia , the couple ’s youth has not been a concern among those who know them .
“ Some people are like , ‘ Wow , you ’re really young , ’ ” she said .
“ But it ’s not unheard - of to get married young in a rural area like this .
And Brandon being in the military is something I think is very respectable . ”
Mr. Baez had been talking about joining the Navy since they met , when he was a senior at Liberty High
and she was a sophomore .
After his 2017 graduation , he worked at Safelite Auto Glass , then left for boot camp in 2019 .
That year , they navigated a long - distance relationship while Mr. Baez trained at a Navy base in Chicago and Ms. Baez finished high school .
He proposed in December 2019 , a month after he was sent to Dahlgren , where he is training in fire control .
Ms. Moore had just completed her nursing program prerequisites at Central Virginia Community College .
On April 17 , they were married at Glencliff Manor by Ricky St. Clair , a pastor at a Peaks View Christian Church in Bedford .
Ms. Moore ’s father , Brad Moore , wiped tears as he walked his daughter , in a white floor - length gown down an outdoor aisle .
Ms. Moore ’s mother , Krista Moore , and Mr. Baez ’s father , Hector Baez , watched from socially distant posts alongside the couple ’s friends Riley Wilson , Lisa Wilson and Austin Elmore .
“ Even though we were in and out in an hour and it was just a few people , we had cake and a toast and it was wonderful , ” Ms. Moore said .
After a weekend spent celebrating in Lynchburg , Va. , at the Craddock Terry Hotel , which was remained open , Mr. Baez was back at his Navy base on Monday .

DC to Resume Sales of Some New Comic Books .
2020-04-20 18:22:34 +00:00 .
After an absence of nearly a month , some costumed superheroes are planning to return to the pages of comic books and to the stores that can still sell them .
DC , the publishing home of Superman , Batman and the Justice League , said that it would resume selling some new comics to retail stores on April 28 , and has set publishing schedules for the weeks of May 5 and May 12 .
Only five DC comics were initially announced for publication on April 28 , a considerable reduction from the period before the coronavirus pandemic effectively shuttered the industry , when publishers like DC and Marvel were releasing dozens of new titles to stores each week .
Those new DC titles include The Dreaming No . 20 , which concludes a long - running story set in the Sandman universe ; and a reprint of Batman No . 89 , which introduces the villain Punchline .
DC also plans to release new installments of
The Flash , Hawkman , Justice League and Harley Quinn in May.
Jim Lee , the publisher and chief creative officer of DC , said in a podcast interview with the filmmaker Kevin Smith that this first batch of new comics represented a “ subsection ” of its titles that were supposed to be released on April 1 .
That ’s when the industry ’s main distribution company , Diamond Comic Distributors , said that it would stop shipping new comics to stores .
“ It ’s like the marketplace is on a diet , ” Lee said in the podcast interview .
“ They have n’t eaten for like a month .
You ca n’t just give them real food and a ton of it at once .
You ’ve got to slowly release it back into the pipeline . ”
Lee added that other major DC publications planned for the spring would probably “ be pushed back until we have more stores up online . ”
He said , that until then , “ the stores that are open and have figured out ways to be in business , we want to help them out .
We want to give them product to sell .
We want to give them the lifeblood that keeps their businesses afloat . ”
Diamond said in a statement reported by Newsarama that it is “ targeting mid- to late May ” to resume its distribution of new comics .
DC will use two other companies , Lunar Distribution and UCS Comic Distributors , during this time .

Luis Sepúlveda, Chilean Writer Exiled by Pinochet, Dies at 70 .
2020-04-20 16:39:09 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
MADRID — Luis Sepúlveda , a Chilean writer whose stay among Indigenous people in the Amazon led to his most celebrated novel and who was jailed during the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet , died April 16 in Oviedo , Spain .
He was 70 .
The cause was the novel coronavirus , according to Tusquets , his publishing house in Barcelona .
Mr. Sepúlveda , who was hospitalized in February , was among the first wave of people in Spain to be diagnosed with the coronavirus .
Mr. Sepúlveda published several novels , children ’s stories and travel books , and he also wrote and directed films .
He acquired fame with his novel “ The Old Man Who Read Love Stories ” ( 1988 ) , which tells the story of a man who , together with his wife , leaves his mountain village to take part in the colonization of the Amazon .
The book was inspired by Mr. Sepúlveda ’s stay in the 1970s with the region ’s Shuar Indigenous people .
A review in The New York Times by David Unger compared it to one of the early works of Gabriel García Márquez .
“ In its simple language and philosophical underpinnings , it is magical , thanks to the author ’s skill at describing jungle life , ” Mr. Unger wrote .
Mr. Sepúlveda wrote the screenplay for a 2001 movie version starring Richard Dreyfuss .
Mr. Sepúlveda was born on Oct. 4 , 1949 , in Ovalle , a small city in central Chile .
His father owned a restaurant and was a Communist militant .
His mother , who was of Mapuche Indigenous descent , worked as a nurse .
As a teenager , he joined the Communist Youth and then studied theater at the University of Chile .
After Gen. Pinochet staged a coup and took charge of Chile in 1973 , Mr. Sepúlveda was among a large number of left - wing intellectuals and political activists jailed by the regime .
His prison sentence was eventually turned into house arrest .
He fled and went underground , but was recaptured and sentenced again , this time to 28 years in prison .
With support from Amnesty International , his sentence was eventually changed to exile and he spent some time in the Amazon .
In the late 1970s , Mr. Sepúlveda moved around Latin America including Nicaragua , where he joined a leftist militant group .
He lived for a time in Germany , where he worked for Greenpeace , serving on one of its ships .
In 1997 , he settled in Spain ’s northern region of Asturias , where he renewed his relationship with Carmen Yáñez , a poet whom he had married in Chile before the coup .
Ms. Yáñez had been detained and tortured by Pinochet ’s police , but she eventually was granted political asylum in Sweden , where she lived until she rejoined Mr. Sepúlveda in Spain .
She and five children , Carlos , Paulina , Max , Leon and Sebastián , survive him .

‘Something Is Going to Explode’: When Coronavirus Strikes a Prison .
2020-04-18 17:33:10 +00:00 .
Ronald Morris : The administration screwed up .
These inmates were over the Covid-19 virus , but they were n’t supposed to be released back out there yet , and so when they realized this , they went back an hour and a half later and grabbed ’em and put them back in the isolation unit .
And when they did that , that freaked those inmates out because they ’re scared of getting this
[ expletive ] , and they thought they ’d just released the virus into that unit and contaminated them .
The problem was , they did n’t educate the inmates on what ’s going on .
It ’s basic corrections 101 , communicating with the inmate population .
Go down there and town hall them and educate them .
They did n’t do that — they kicked ’em out and then jerked them back up , and you think , Oh , hell , they just brought an infected person down here , and now we ’re all going to get this [ expletive ] .
Don Cain , via email : I know one thing is , if I do pass , my family has one heck of a suit .
On April 17 , a Bureau of Prisons spokeswoman responded to a detailed request for comment with a statement : “ We want to point out that following a recent visit to F.C.C. Oakdale , the C.D.C. and the Louisiana Office of Public Health commended F.C.C. Oakdale staff and confirmed their compliance with current C.D.C. guidance for Covid management in correctional facilities .
We direct you to our public website for detailed information about how the B.O.P. is taking aggressive steps to mitigate the spread of Covid in all of our facilities , including F.C.C. Oakdale . ”
Ronald Morris , via text , April 10 : Another inmate death — six .
Positive inmates : 49 .
Positive staff : 26 .
Correctional Officer 1 : You do n’t know .
This could be the day that you have a temperature .
Or this is going to be the day that you come in contact with somebody that ’s going to get you sick .
Every day when I come home kind of starts my 14 days over , where I ca n’t have contact with my family .
It ’s weighing on my wife , and it ’s weighing on me .
I ’m starting to become a little withdrawn and short .
I know that my stress rubs on to her and then rubs off to the kids .
And it ’s not just us .
I ’m sure it ’s the health care providers , I ’m sure it ’s the local parish and state law enforcement , federal law enforcement , firefighters .
I mean , we all probably feel the exact same way .
We have no choice .
Mayor Paul : We do n’t have a morgue at the Oakdale hospital .
They have run in a portable morgue .
It ’s an 18 - wheeler on the loading dock .
I understand it is for all the surrounding hospitals if needed .
Correctional Officer 2 : We ’re still releasing inmates if it ’s time for them to be released .
When they ’re going to leave here , they ’re going to get on a Greyhound bus , probably change two or three different buses .
One ’s going , let ’s say , to Houston , one is going to Georgia ; we send inmates all over the United States .
We send inmates to Puerto Rico .
We send inmates everywhere .
I have brought up that if we know that they ’re getting out , then why are we not putting them in quarantine ?
Because an inmate could not have a fever 12 hours before he leaves , get on a plane or a bus , and as soon as he gets home , he tests positive .
Well , then he ’s contaminated all those people .

Coronavirus Halts Another U.K. Ritual: Birthday Gun Salute for Queen .
2020-04-18 12:31:18 +00:00 .
LONDON — When Queen Elizabeth II turns 94 on Tuesday , for the first time in her nearly seven - decade reign her birthday will not be marked by a gun salute — another longstanding ritual lost to the grim siege of the coronavirus .
The queen requested that “ no special measures be put in place ” for artillery guns to be fired from multiple sites around London , according to Buckingham Palace , because she did not “ feel it appropriate in the current circumstances . ”
She also instructed that flags should not be flown in her honor unless it could be done while observing social distancing restrictions .
Buckingham Palace said the queen , who has sequestered herself at Windsor Castle since mid - March , did not plan to mark her birthday “ in any special way . ”
She might speak to members of the royal family , who are scattered across the country , by video call , a palace official said , but the conversations would be private .
The palace had already scrapped the queen ’s birthday parade , known as Trooping the Color .
That elaborate military procession is traditionally held in June and draws thousands of spectators to the wide avenue in front of the palace , where she waves from the balcony , as fighter jets roar overhead .
The queen has managed to be at once conspicuously absent and reassuringly visible during the pandemic .
She left London abruptly on March 19 , four days before Prime Minister Boris Johnson imposed a lockdown on the country , and has been living in isolation at Windsor since then .
But she delivered a rare televised address on April 5 to rally Britons for the national struggle against the virus .
Drawing on her own experience as a young princess during World War II , the queen appealed to the country to show solidarity and stoicism — not by drawing together but by staying apart .
“ We should take comfort that while we may have more still to endure , better days will return , ” the queen said .
“ We will be with our friends again ; we will be with our families again ; we will meet again . ”
That last line alluded to “ We ’ll Meet Again , ” a 1939 song popularized by Vera Lynn that became a wartime favorite in Britain .
The address carried a distinct echo of the famous speech the queen ’s father , George VI , gave on the brink of the war , lending it emotional resonance in a country where the virus has killed more than 14,000 people and threatened the political establishment .
Less than an hour after the queen spoke earlier this month , the government announced that Mr. Johnson had been hospitalized with the virus .
He spent three nights in intensive care and is now recuperating at Chequers , the country residence of British prime ministers .
Several of Mr. Johnson ’s senior aides were also infected .
Fears for the queen ’s health surged after Prince Charles , her eldest son and heir to the throne , announced on March 25 that he was suffering symptoms of the virus .
The prince , 71 , had met his mother on March 12 , only a day before his medical advisers assessed that he could have been infectious .
News outlets reported that one of the queen ’s footmen , who is responsible for walking her dogs , had also contracted the virus .
Buckingham Palace took extraordinary measures to protect her during the taping of the speech , allowing only a single camera operator , wearing a mask and gloves , to be in the room .
The queen looked at ease and alert during her speech , and Buckingham Palace has offered no updates on her condition .
The palace is already planning her platinum jubilee , in 2022 , marking 70 years on the throne .
She is the world ’s oldest monarch and longest - serving head of state .

A New Chapter in Salt Lake City .
2020-04-18 10:03:04 +00:00 .
Nicholaus Shackleton , 39 , met Eric Johnson , 37 , in October 2017 while halfheartedly looking on the men ’s dating app Scruff , while he was away for the weekend in Denver .
“ I was living in Seattle and flew in for a Broncos game , ” said Mr. Shackleton .
“ I did n’t have my search parameter on .
Eric caught my attention .
We started texting before I realized he lived in Utah . ”
The texting lasted for three hours .
Phone numbers were exchanged .
Texting continued the following day while Mr. Shackleton , a senior project manager at the cutting - machine company Cricut , returned home to Seattle .
A two - hour FaceTime call followed the next night .
More calls ensued .
Three weeks later , Mr. Shackleton flew to Salt Lake City to meet Mr. Johnson , an accountant at Priority Dispatch , a distributor of emergency dispatch technology .
“ Eric offered to pick me up at the airport , ” Mr. Shackleton said .
“ To be waiting for me inside with a sign and flowers told me he would be someone special in my life . ”
Mr. Johnson said he , too , was touched by Mr. Shackleton ’s efforts to meet him in person .
Things moved fast .
In January 2018 , the couple decided to build a house together in Cottonwood Heights , a suburb of Salt Lake City .
Over the next year , one of them would travel monthly to see the other .
A proposal came that April during a trip to Colorado where Mr. Johnson met Mr. Shackleton ’s family .
When Mr. Schackleton handed Mr. Johnson a letter professing his love , then got down on one knee in their hotel room the following night , both cried before Mr. Johnson said , ‘ yes . ’
It was Mr. Johnson who had his sights set on a date and location : March 20 , 2020 at Devil ’s Thumb Ranch , a resort in Tabernash , Colo.
“ I only wanted two things ; the mountains , and the first date of the spring equinox , ” he said .
“ Spring is symbolic of rebirth and a new chapter .
It ’s symbolic of starting a life together . ”
The location was booked .
The date announced .
The invitations were sent .
That September , Mr. Schackleton moved in with Mr. Johnson .
Then , the impact of the coronavirus began .
Washington was hit first .
Then Colorado .
Both states began canceling flights , closing venues and halting large gatherings .
Apologetic guests pulled out .
Still , neither wanted to postpone .
“ I did n’t want to wait to keep living my life , ” Mr. Johnson said .
“ I was a late bloomer .
The date was special to me .
Nic spent a year planning every detail .
I wanted to validate his hard work . ”
On March 15 , their venue was forced to close .
Two days later their wedding planner quit .
The next day , Mr. Johnson called the Salt Lake County Justice Court hoping they could we d there , but it was closed for ceremonies .
They could , however , still retain a license , which they did that day .
A family friend of Mr. Johnson ’s , who lived 15 miles away , had a beautiful backyard and graciously offered to host .
Flowers were recycled from a friend ’s recent wedding .
Mr. Johnson ’s cousin baked the cake .
Their original photographer found a local one to take the photos .
Twelve guests were there March 20 and 100 more experienced the wedding on Zoom , including their original officiant , who lived in Seattle .
James Rohling , a Universal Life minister , was the legal officiate on site .
The couple were married , in matching customized suits , at exactly 3:20 p.m. on 3/20/2020 , just as Mr. Johnson had wanted .
“ Seeing Eric at the end of the aisle and seeing the zoom screen with all our people rallying around us made me realize this was what ’s important , ” said Mr. Schackleton .
Mr. Johnson agreed .
“ We handled everything that was thrown at us , which brought us closer together and will be a special story to tell for years . ”

Virtual Dating Is the New Normal. Will It Work? .
2020-04-18 09:01:50 +00:00 .
Now those sessions are virtual , and have become a bit more customized to the individual .
Every Monday , women who , in the pre - coronavirus days , would have been live audience members , now have one - on - one chats that last three minutes with each man participating in a now - digital panel .
If she is attracted to the person on the screen , she can spend her session flirting .
If she gets more of a friend vibe , she can solicit dating advice instead .
“ You can say , ‘ I was talking to this guy , we met before quarantine , he sent me this text , it was a little vague , what do you think ? ’ ” Image Advertisements for MaleRoom Monday events .
Credit ...
Mindie Kaplan The first virtual MaleRoom session on March 30 had 15 men and 15 women ; by April 13 , participants had increased to 20 and 20 .
Ms. Kaplan is hoping to scale sessions even more in future weeks .
Most recently , MaleRoom started to host events on Twitch , a video live streaming service that is part of Amazon , where women can submit questions to men in real time .
Lyndsey Wheeler , 28 , a co - founder of Here / Now along with Rachel Breitenwischer , 32 , has seen a highly increased demand for her events since the quarantine started .
All five of her sessions in late March sold out days in advance , and “ numbers are still strong , ” she said .
Tickets cost $ 5 to $ 10 and can be bought on Eventbrite .
Here / Now is also expanding its offerings .
On April 17 , it produced its first event for gay men , in partnership with OneTable .
Soon , Ms. Wheeler said , it hopes to incorporate daters over the age of 40 , too ( currently its focus is on 25 - to-40 - year - olds ) .
It is also presenting virtual dating workshops ( a recent one featured the relationship therapist Cara Kovacs and had 40 participants . )
On April 16 , it hosted a mixer where participants listened to a comedian riff on dating before they mingled with one another .
MaleRoom is looking into charging for its events too , and donating proceeds to Frontline Foods , an organization that works with local restaurants to prepare meals for frontline medical workers battling Covid-19 .
There is also Filter Off , a new video dating app that is remarkably similar to old - fashioned speed dating .
It was started by Zach Schleien , 29 , who grew tired of not having any chemistry with people he met on apps .
“ It would waste two drinks in what is an expensive city , not to mention the opportunity cost of my time , ” he said .
Mr. Schlein ’s twist : before you give a thumbs up or thumbs down on a person , you have to have a 90 - second video chat session with them .
“ You can read fun facts about someone before your chat , but the photo is blurred , ” he said .
“ We do n’t want you to cancel the date because you do n’t like the photo . ”

Tarlach MacNiallais, Who Fought for Gay and Disability Rights, Dies at 57 .
2020-04-17 20:46:31 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
The month of March began with a glorious Sunday morning , perfect for the St. Pat ’s For All Parade in Queens that celebrates diversity and equality as much as Irish heritage and culture .
Among the organizers was the gregarious Tarlach MacNiallais , who had worked long and hard for inclusion of the long excluded .
He was known for his decades of advocacy for L.G.B.T. and disability rights .
“ A battering ram on issues of importance , ” according to Harriet Golden , a vice president at A.H.R.C.
New York City , an organization that serves people with intellectual and developmental disabilities , where Mr. MacNiallais worked for nearly 35 years .
Mr. MacNiallais died on April 1 .
He was 57 .
The cause was complications of the coronavirus , according to friends and family .
He was born Terence Nellis in Belfast , Northern Ireland , on Oct. 9 , 1962 , the tenth of 11 children of John James Nellis , a bus conductor , and Una Nellis , a homemaker .
He later adopted the Irish language version of his name , pronounced TAR - lock MACK - neel - ish .
As a university student , he protested against British imperialism and emerged as a gay rights advocate .
He responded to the “ Save Ulster From Sodomy ” campaign — an ultimately unsuccessful effort to keep homosexual acts illegal in Northern Ireland — by helping to mount a counter campaign with the slogan “ Save Sodomy From Ulster . ”
He moved to New York in the mid-1980s and became involved in the protracted struggle by L.G.B.T. groups to be fully included in the St. Patrick ’s Day Parade up Fifth Avenue .
Many years later , he became a member of the New York City St. Patrick ’s Day Parade formation committee , and marched in the parade with the Lavender and Green Alliance in 2016 .
Brendan Fay , a friend and fellow activist , emphasized that Mr. MacNiallais ’s well - publicized activism for inclusive parades should not overshadow an equal passion .
“ Most of his life in this city was advocating for people with disabilities , ” Mr. Fay said .
Mr. MacNiallais tested positive for the virus in mid - March and died at NewYork - Presbyterian / Weill Cornell Medical Center , with the texted words of loved ones being read to him by a nurse .
He is survived by his husband , Juan Nepomuceno , nine siblings and three stepchildren .
On that March Sunday , the day the city ’s first case of coronavirus was confirmed , the St. Pat ’s For All Parade moved joyously through a corner of Queens before ending in the Woodside neighborhood , where organizers gathered for an after - party at the Saints Sinners Pub .
Amid the singing and drinking and cheering , the booming voice of Mr. MacNiallais was “ soaring above the lot of us , ” Mr. Fay recalled .
Everything else , he said , “ seemed far away . ”

Fernando Miteff, 60, Graffiti Artist With a Generous Spirit, Dies .
2020-04-17 17:30:48 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
Fernando Miteff liked his art so much , he gave it away .
Using the graffiti tag Nic 707 , he was known for giving scraps of paper adorned with his graceful letter designs and outlines to up - and - coming artists to guide them , and to fans to thank them .
And for the last decade he did something most straphangers thought had vanished in the late 1980s :
He brought graffiti back to the subway .
But this time , he did it by boarding a train , replacing ads with pieces by some of the country ’s best - known and most influential graffiti artists , like Taki 183 , and switching them back at the end of his ride .
“ I wanted to bring a new ideology to graffiti , ” he said in a 2015 interview about his guerrilla subway car exhibits , which he called InstaFame Phantom Art .
“ I did n’t want to leave a mark that stays .
I wanted to leave an impression .
As long as you saw and remembered it , I ’m happy with that . ”
Mr. Miteff died on April 12 at his home in the Bronx .
He was 60 .
The cause was complications of Covid-19 , said his younger brother Karim , who managed his archives and was writing a book about Mr. Miteff ’s graffiti career .
In a culture known for egos and arguments , Mr. Miteff prided himself on sharing his love of the art .
“ He was always giving , giving and giving , ” Karim Miteff said .
“ He ’d sit at McDonald ’s doodling on napkins and pass it out .
He would be more apt to give away his work than to sell it . ”
Mr. Miteff was born in Buenos Aires to Diana and Alexis Pablo Miteff , a professional boxer who once fought Muhammad Ali and worked as a television production manager after retiring .
His parents had been spending a year in Argentina before returning to New York .
Karim said his brother was raised in the Morrisania section of the Bronx , where he started tagging at 12 after discovering a can of spray paint in his home ’s basement .
He later founded the Out to Bomb crew , a loose - knit group of collaborators , and influenced younger artists like Serve and his protégé , NOC167 , who went on to fame .
Though he spent much of his adult life working odd jobs , including chauffeur and standup comic , he returned to the subways in 2009 after he and a friend had a brainstorm ; it led to his InstaFame project .
His easy personality and sense of humor helped him persuade collaborators — from established to up - and - coming ones — even to paint pieces on the sidewalk outside art openings .
“ He was a funny dude , but he took a lot of people under his wing , ” said Eric Felisbret , author of “ Graffiti New York , ” a survey of the city ’s graffiti history .
“ He was completely into graffiti for the love of it .
All those panels he did , he could have only written NIC and that would put him in the spotlight .
Instead , he put his love for the art in the spotlight . ”

Nora Illi, Swiss Muslim Convert Who Sparked Controversy, Dies at 35 .
2020-04-16 18:30:55 +00:00 .
Nora Illi , a Swiss convert to Islam who believed Muslim women should have the right to wear full - body veils and publicly challenged bans against them , died on March 23 in Bern , Switzerland .
She was 35 .
The cause was breast cancer , said Ferah Ulucay , the secretary general of the Swiss Central Islamic Council .
Ms. Illi had been the organization ’s representative for women ’s affairs .
In 2009 Ms. Illi and her husband , Abdel Azziz Qaasim Illi , helped found the organization as Switzerland was debating a proposal to ban minarets , the prayer towers on mosques .
( The ban was passed . )
The Swiss Central Islamic Council sought to promote knowledge of Islam in Switzerland and gained several thousand followers , many of them Swiss converts to Islam .
But it was also criticized by centrist Muslims for its radical interpretations of the religion , and it came under the scrutiny of Swiss authorities because of its links to known Salafist preachers , who promote a fundamentalist interpretation of Islam .
Ms. Illi ’s own actions would also draw the attention of the authorities .
In July 2016 , the day a ban on full - face coverings went into effect in the canton of Ticino , she appeared on the streets of Locarno pushing a baby stroller and wearing a blue niqab , a full - length body veil with only a slit for her to see through .
She was quickly surrounded by reporters .
“ This is a specific law against women that violates the right to religious freedom and my constitutional rights , ” she told them before the police escorted her to the station , where she was issued a fine .
Later that year , she appeared on “ Anne Will , ” a popular talk show on ARD , Germany ’s public television station , wearing a full black niqab and describing the garment as an expression of her “ freedom ” that allowed her “ to play an active role in society . ”
When the host asked for her opinion on the thousands of young Europeans who were traveling to Syria to join the Islamic State , Ms. Illi refused to condemn them and instead urged their parents to accept their decision .
After her television appearance , the conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine newspaper condemned her as “ the perfect spreader of propaganda of a nihilistic cult of annihilation , because she passes off the oppression — especially of women — as emancipation . ”
Nora Gögel was born on April 3 , 1984 , in Zurich .
Her father is a psychologist , her mother a social worker .
Ms. Illi first became interested in Islam in 2002 when she met Mr. Illi , himself a convert to Islam , at Zurich ’s main train station , where he was handing out fliers calling for a boycott of Israel .
She converted to Islam , and the two married in Jordan in July 2003 .
Her husband and her parents survive her .
Her other survivors include five daughters and a son .
Her burial on March 26 was live - streamed on YouTube , as only immediate family members were allowed to attend given restrictions surrounding the coronavirus .
A poem she wrote was recited at the funeral .
It read : You stare at me and call me oppressed because of a piece of clothing .
You do n’t ask what I have to say , but judge what I wear with pride .
I can climb mountains and cross oceans .
My spirit is free from prejudice freedom that Islam gives .

Opinion | Trump’s Brain: A Guided Tour .
2020-04-16 09:02:32 +00:00 .
Trump was certainly not the only official who was slow to adapt .
Human beings are hard - wired to follow the herd .
On March 2 Bill de Blasio , the mayor of New York City , was still encouraging New Yorkers to “ get out on the town despite the coronavirus . ”
He went to the gym in Brooklyn on March 16 , even after he ’d announced the city schools were shutting down .
( Then again , Trump , on March 2 , said he expected deaths to be in a “ much smaller range ” than those from the flu .
On March 10 , he still said : “ Just stay calm .
It will go away . ” )
Even Dr. Anthony Fauci , perhaps the most trusted man in America right now , admitted recently that he rode the subway to work in the early days of the pandemic .
“ When the White House heard that , they went completely nuts , ” he said .
“ If some people are riding the subway , how bad could it be ? ”
Gilbert said when I asked him about this phenomenon — what psychologists call “ normative influence . ”
No one wants to be a chump .
“ Human beings look to other human beings to know what to do , ” he said .
“ It ’s the primary way we know what to do . ”
Which makes the early action of some of our governors all the more remarkable — particularly Mike DeWine of Ohio .
On March 3 , the day after de Blasio was encouraging New Yorkers to mingle , DeWine was canceling the Arnold Classic , a health - and - fitness Lollapalooza that draws some 60,000 participants from 80 countries .
( It was named after Arnold Schwarzenegger , natch . )
I spoke to DeWine last week to try to determine what , precisely , gave him the fortitude to cancel that event .
He was three days ahead of the city officials in Austin , Tex . , who canceled South by Southwest , and at the time even that was considered extreme .
He canceled school before any governor in the nation .
He shut down restaurants and bars long before New York .
And his state had far fewer cases of Covid-19 than New York .
And he ’s a Republican .
Red - state governors have been far more reluctant to issue stay - at - home orders during this pandemic than blue - state governors .
To this day , Gov. Kristi Noem of South Dakota still has n’t issued one , though more than 300 workers in a pork - processing factory in her state fell ill , forcing the entire plant to shut down on Sunday .
“ I ’ve spent over 40 years in public office , ” DeWine , 73 , told me .
“ When I ’ve made mistakes , it ’s usually because I did n’t have enough information .
I did n’t ask enough questions , I did n’t ask the right people , I did n’t drill down deep enough into the facts .
That experience was helpful in regard to this . ”

Opinion | I Took the Antibody Test. And Yet. .
2020-04-15 21:40:46 +00:00 .
The reason to want to do it is simple : I travel a great deal , and I was also one of the many people who thought they might have had a milder version of coronavirus earlier in the year .
When I was sidelined with the flu in January , I thought nothing of it , until it degenerated into one of the weirdest and most painful bouts of flu I have ever had .
There were fever spikes , aches , nausea , lack of smell , a persistent dry cough — all of which were later flagged as key symptoms of Covid-19 .
I recovered after three truly awful weeks of debilitating illness .
Once the coronavirus was in full swing , I wondered if I had been an early victim .
So I checked , and here is what happened : The test I received in the mail , which is not yet approved by the F.D.A. , was self - administered , arriving with a lancet to poke my finger , a pipette to draw the blood out and collect it , a tube of solution and two plastic test strips that determine the presence of certain proteins — antibodies — in the body .
The home tests are meant as a start , much the way other self - testing products are .
Honestly , the whole setup looked like a home pregnancy test , except using blood instead of urine , and was just as frictionless .
Well , except for the finger poke , which was not as easy as I thought .
After a long existential moment with the lancet , I drew a few drops of blood , combined them with the solution , and then added a few drops to a small plastic testing device .
A line immediately appeared on an indicator strip to indicate that the test was working .
I then waited for eight minutes to see if the other line would appear , which would show I had the antibodies .
No such luck .
Like a lot of people , I had hoped to be able to know that my very presence was not harmful to others .
This is a big deal , as our national medical star Dr. Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , recently noted in an interview on NBC : “ There may be many people out there , and I suspect there are a fair amount , that have been infected , were asymptomatic and did n’t know it . ”
It is a national tragedy that “ do n’t know ” is pretty much how we are operating these days .
Especially since we live in a world where we are tracked constantly by big corporations , where we send plumes of data and cough up information to them constantly .
And yet we can not do that for our own benefit when it comes to our real lives .

Apple, in a Virtual Unveiling, Introduces a $399 iPhone .
2020-04-15 17:36:04 +00:00 .
SAN FRANCISCO — In some ways , there could n’t be a worse time than a pandemic to introduce a new gadget .
But Apple unveiled its latest iPhone on Wednesday anyway , seizing on a time when many of us are sheltering indoors and glued to our devices .
The new iPhone SE arrives with a lower price : At $ 399 , it costs about 40 percent less than the regular $ 699 iPhone .
The device has the design of an older generation of iPhones , with the same computing power as newer ones .
That means the SE looks like an iPhone from 2014 , with a smaller screen and a home button instead of a face scanner , but is as fast as the fancier iPhone 11 from 2019 .
Apple typically holds splashy events to introduce new products .
But because of the pandemic , the company instead live - streamed a product executive showing a slide show of images of the new iPhone to make its announcement .
Apple , which relies on factories in China to produce its smartphones , warned in February that production would be hampered because the factories were only slowly reopening after business was largely shut down because of the coronavirus outbreak there .
The tech giant said its sales would also be hurt by slowing consumer demand and closures of its retail stores .
At the same time , iPhones and other computing devices — such as iPads and Mac laptops — have become essential tools to many people who are working or learning from their homes under shelter - in - place orders .
That may stoke interest in a new and less - expensive iPhone .
Apple has generally priced its iPhones high and marketed them as objects of desire , but it has taken the budget approach before .
Four years ago , the company released the first iPhone SE , which also featured an older design with sped - up internals , for $ 399 .
The device was popular among those who preferred smaller phone screens for a lower price .
Apple was the world ’s No . 1 phone maker in the fourth quarter of 2019 by shipments , according to the research firm IDC .
Its iPhones sold particularly well in developed regions like the United States .
A lower - priced smartphone gives the company an opportunity to compete in developing markets like India , where people have gravitated toward cheaper phones .
Phil Schiller , Apple ’s head of marketing , said in a statement that the iPhone SE was an improvement from its predecessor .
The SE lacks some other frills seen in more expensive iPhones .
Notably , the SE ’s main camera has a single lens capable of producing so - called portrait photos , which involve sharpening subjects in the foreground while gently blurring the background .
In contrast , the $ 699 iPhone 11 and $ 999 iPhone 11 Pro have dual- and triple - lens camera systems capable of shooting better photos in low light and taking shots with a wider field of view .
The new iPhone will become available on April 24 , Apple said .
Carolina Milanesi , a consumer technology analyst for the research firm Creative Strategies , said the timing of the SE ’s release was unfortunate because many Apple retail stores , where shoppers can try new iPhones before buying them , were closed .
But people who are struggling financially because of the pandemic may appreciate being able to buy a cheaper iPhone , she said .
“ The rest of this year and next year might be the best time to have something priced like that in the portfolio , ” she said .
Apple has said it plans to use its iPhones to help halt the spread of the coronavirus .
Last week , it announced that it had teamed up with Google to build software into smartphones that would tell people if they were recently in contact with someone who was infected with the illness , a move that eases a method of tracking the virus known as contact tracing .

Apple, in a Virtual Unveiling, Introduces a $399 iPhone .
2020-04-15 15:04:09 +00:00 .
SAN FRANCISCO — In some ways , there could n’t be a worse time than a pandemic to introduce a new gadget .
But Apple unveiled its latest iPhone on Wednesday anyway , seizing on a time when many of us are sheltering indoors and glued to our devices .
The new iPhone SE arrives with a lower price .
At $ 399 , it costs about 40 percent less than the regular $ 699 iPhone .
The device has the design of an older generation of iPhones , with the same computing power as newer ones .
That means the SE looks like an iPhone from 2014 , with a smaller screen and a home button instead of a face scanner , but is as fast as the fancier iPhone 11 from 2019 .
Apple typically holds splashy events to introduce new products .
But with the pandemic , the company instead live - streamed a product executive showing a slide show of images of the new iPhone to make its announcement .
Apple , which relies on factories in China to produce its smartphones , warned in February that production would be hampered because the factories were only slowly reopening after business was largely shut down because of the coronavirus outbreak there .
The tech giant said its sales would also be hurt by slowing consumer demand and closures of its retail stores .
At the same time , iPhones and other computing devices — such as iPads and Mac laptops — have become essential tools to many people who are working or learning from their homes under shelter - in - place orders .
That may stoke interest in a new and less expensive iPhone .
Apple has generally priced its iPhones high and marketed them as objects of desire , but it has taken the budget approach before .
Four years ago , the company released the first iPhone SE , which also featured an older design with sped - up internals , for $ 399 .
The device was popular among those who preferred smaller phone screens for a lower price .
Apple was the world ’s No . 1 phone maker in the fourth quarter of 2019 by shipments , according to the research firm IDC .
Its iPhones sold particularly well in developed regions like the United States .
A lower - priced smartphone gives the company an opportunity to compete in developing markets like India , where people have gravitated toward cheaper phones .
The SE lacks some other frills seen in more expensive iPhones .
Notably , the SE ’s main camera has a single lens capable of producing so - called portrait photos , which involve sharpening subjects in the foreground while gently blurring the background .
In contrast , the $ 699 iPhone 11 and $ 999 iPhone 11 Pro have dual- and triple - lens camera systems capable of shooting better photos in low light and taking shots with a wider field of view .
The new iPhone will become available on April 24 , Apple said .
Apple has said it plans to use its iPhones to help halt the spread of the coronavirus .
Last week , it announced that it had teamed up with Google to build software into smartphones that would tell people if they were recently in contact with someone who was infected with the illness , a move that facilitates a method of tracking the virus known as “ contact tracing . ”

Zhang Lifa, Veteran Who Worked on China’s Nuclear Program, Dies at 76 .
2020-04-14 20:15:48 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Read about others here .
Zhang Lifa , a veteran of the People ’s Liberation Army , felt pride in the years he spent working on China ’s nuclear weapons program , even as his health faltered from the long - term exposure to radiation .
At 19 , Mr. Zhang followed his father into the army , joining at a time when China was racing to build its first atomic and hydrogen bombs .
He worked for six years on classified nuclear missions , including at a remote site called Plant 221 , also known as China ’s Los Alamos , in the northwestern province of Qinghai .
Mr. Zhang died on Feb. 1 at a hospital in Wuhan from complications of the coronavirus , his son , Zhang Hai , said .
He was 76 .
In January , after Mr. Zhang fell and broke his thigh bone , he traveled with his son from Guangdong , where they lived , to Wuhan , his hometown , for surgery .
The virus was spreading in Wuhan at the time , but local officials were playing down the risk of human - to - human transmission , so Mr. Zhang proceeded with the trip .
Not long after he checked into the hospital , Mr. Zhang contracted the virus , his son said , and he died less than two weeks later .
By then , the crisis had exploded into full view .
“ If I had known the conditions , I would never have sent my father back , ” Mr. Zhang ’s son said .
“ Now I feel like sending him back was like sending him into the hands of death . ”
Zhang Lifa was born in 1943 in the eastern Chinese province of Shandong and grew up in Wuhan .
His father had fought in Mao Zedong ’s Communist army against the Kuomintang during the Chinese Civil War , and he , too , felt an impulse to serve his country from a young age .
After his years working on the country ’s nuclear program , Mr. Zhang left the army in 1968 .
He began to suffer from health issues caused by sustained exposure to radiation .
He became deaf in one ear and had a weakened liver .
After jumping from job to job , Mr. Zhang became a delivery driver for a vocational school .
He retired early , at 56 , because of his illnesses .
Mr. Zhang is survived by his son and a daughter , as well as a grandson .
His wife died in 2009 of cancer .
Last year , Mr. Zhang was stricken with Alzheimer ’s disease .
The younger Mr. Zhang moved his father to Guangdong , where he lived , and quit his job in real estate to take care of him full time .
In the months before Mr. Zhang ’s death , his mind and memories began to fade .
But at times , there were glimmers of his old patriotic self .
“ Sometimes he envisioned himself back on the battlefield , ” his son said .
“ He ’d be shouting , ‘ Let ’s fight for our country ! ’ ”

Today’s Live-Streaming Events: Zachary Quinto and Leslie Odom Jr. .
2020-04-14 09:01:21 +00:00 .
Here are a few of the best events happening today and how to tune in ( all times are E.S.T. ) .
Updated daily .
Zachary Quinto in a Live Discussion 3 p.m. on Zoom
Today , the actor Zachary Quinto ( “ Star Trek , ” “ NOS4A2 ” ) and Andrew Berman , head of Village Preservation , will discuss the role of epidemics in Manhattan in an online event .
New York City had over 106,000 confirmed cases of coronavirus and around 7,000 deaths as of Monday afternoon .
In addition to the virus , Quinto and Berman will talk about the AIDS epidemic , and Quinto will read a passage from “ Here Is New York ” by E.B. White .
This community conversation is part of the Virtual Salon Series from Rattlestick Playwrights Theater .
When : 3 p.m.
Where : The event , which will be held via Zoom call , is free , but reservations are required .
They can be made here .
Leslie Odom Jr. , at Home and Live in Concert 5 p.m. on Facebook Billboard is taking listeners into the homes of musicians — or are the musicians coming into listeners ’ homes ?
Either way , the stars are performing live and it ’s free , though there ’s an option during the shows to donate to various organizations helping out during the coronavirus crisis , including Meals on Wheels America , Downtown Women ’s Center , My Friend ’s Place and Feeding America .
Who and when : Today , Leslie Odom Jr. will perform at 5 p.m.
Where : Billboard ’s Facebook page .
Marc - André Hamelin , Live From His Piano at Home
7:30 p.m. on 92Y
Online
The esteemed pianist Marc - André Hamelin , whom The New York Times has called “ a performer of near - superhuman technical prowess , ” will live stream an eclectic program from his home near Boston .
The performance will include Liszt ’s “ Bénédiction de Dieu dans la Solitude ” as well as works by C.P.E. Bach , Enescu , Fauré , Scriabin , and six selections from Debussy ’s Preludes , Book II .
When : 7:30 p.m.
Where : 92Y
Online
A Stage Show , Designed to Stream , Begins 8 p.m. on Thirdwing ’s app
Thirdwing , a digital theater company specifically designed to develop plays for streaming and the live stage , was introduced just days before most everything shut down .
This meant that Thirdwing ’s first live stage offering , Rachel Carey ’s “ The Female Genius ” — an episodically written show intended to run from April 14 through April 18 at The Wild Project in New York — was canceled .
Now , Thirdwing is partnering with The Wild Project to digitally release one episode each night of its scheduled run .
The play — “ a darkly comic look at the struggle of having great talent in a misogynistic world , ” according to Thirdwing — was filmed in different styles reminiscent of the teleplays of the 1950s and ’ 60s .
When : 8 p.m.
Where : A subscription to the Thirdwing app ( available on iPhone , Roku and more ) is required to view this performance , but the platform is offering a seven - day free trial .
Sign up here .
Peter Libbey contributed research .

The Coronavirus Derails Marina Abramovic’s Maria Callas Opera .
2020-04-13 10:59:32 +00:00 .
“ Later on , I knew everything about her , ” Ms. Abramovic said .
“ I read eight biographies , all of them , and there was so much similarity that I see in myself .
We are Sagittarius , the same ; we had bad mothers .
And then , also , this incredible intensity in the emotions , that she can be fragile , and strong at the same time . ”
For “ 7 Deaths of Maria Callas , ” Ms. Abramovic selected the arias , beginning with “ Addio del passato ” from “ La Traviata ” and reaching a climax with “ Casta Diva ” from “ Norma , ” to reflect those emotional states , and she worked with the music video director Nabil Elderkin to develop the short films , which play onstage while the singers perform live .
Last November , she flew to Los Angeles to record the films with Mr. Dafoe .
In an interview , Mr. Dafoe said he had gotten to know Ms. Abramovic when he was acting with the Wooster Group , the experimental New York theater company .
In the early 2000s , Ms. Abramovic was living in a co - op in the same downtown building as the theater , and she would come to see its shows .
The two became friends and later collaborated on “ The Life and Death of Marina Abramovic , ” a stage work by the avant - garde director Robert Wilson .
In six of the videos , Mr. Dafoe plays Ms. Abramovic ’s lover or assassin ; in all of them , Ms. Abramovic dies .
In one , Mr. Dafoe handles a python that strangles Ms. Abramovic , to the strains of the “ Ave Maria ” Desdemona sings shortly before being throttled by the title character in Verdi ’s “ Otello . ”
“ I ’ve known her for years , and I like being part of her work , ” Mr. Dafoe said .
“ If she wants me to kill her , well , that ’s quite an honor . ”
In another video , Mr. Dafoe stabs Ms. Abramovic to the Habanera from “ Carmen . ”
Susan McClary , a professor of musicology at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland , said in an interview that Bizet ’s opera had established the trope of the tragic heroine who gets murdered onstage .
Women had died in opera from the art form ’s beginnings , she said , but the audience did n’t see it until the 19th century .

Guggenheim, Facing $10 Million Shortfall, Turns to Furloughs and Pay Cuts .
2020-04-10 23:07:40 +00:00 .
The director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and Foundation told employees on Friday that the institution would implement furloughs and pay reductions in an effort to contend with “ the deep and sudden impact ” of the coronavirus pandemic .
“ The near- and long - term financial impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the Museum ’s fiscal well - being is profound , ” the director , Richard Armstrong , wrote in an email to workers .
“ This decision did not come easily . ”
Mr. Armstrong said in a separate statement that the Guggenheim projected a $ 10 million revenue shortfall , and added that 92 staff members from across the museum will be furloughed .
Those staff members , which union officials said include about a dozen people who work in a clandestine storage facility , will be paid through April 19 and receive health benefits covered by the museum through July 31 or the date of rehire , whichever comes first , Mr. Armstrong said .
All unused vacation time will be paid out by May 1 , according to the museum .
Pay will be reduced for another 85 employees , the museum said , including Mr. Armstrong , whose salary will be reduced by 25 percent .
The Guggenheim , which has 315 full- and part - time staff , is the most recent of the major museums in New York City to resort to contingency plans to survive the upheaval caused by the virus .
The Metropolitan Museum of Art , which has prepared for a loss of $ 100 million and closure until July , has said it will extend pay for all staff until May 2 .
The Met is also considering whether it might dip into its $ 3.6 billion endowment fund .
Other institutions have begun whittling their payrolls .
Earlier this month , the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art were reported to have furloughed , laid off or let go of dozens of employees apiece .
Around the same time , a union representing workers at the New Museum said that the museum had laid off or furloughed dozens of staff members and told unionized part - time art handlers that their scheduled installation work was canceled until further notice .
A union representing about 140 of the Guggenheim ’s workers criticized the furloughs .
“ The administration ’s decision to add to this crisis for their dedicated employees is wrong , ” said William Lynn , business manager of Local 30 of the International Union of Operating Engineers .
“ It only strengthens our union ’s resolve to negotiate a contract that makes this a fair place to work for these workers . ”
The union said that more than 100 regular freelance art handlers , carpenters and others had been paid for work scheduled through March 29 but not for assignments that some of those workers had lined up in April or early May.
In his statement , Mr. Armstrong described the impact of the pandemic on the museum , citing loss of admission revenue ; the cancellation of education classes , public programs and special events ; and a decline in the museum ’s endowment .
He added that the museum expected that admission revenue would “ remain substantially lower ” than before when the museum reopens .
The museum ’s Frank Lloyd Wright building on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan closed on March 13 .
The Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice and the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao have also closed .
“ We hope that we may re - open the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in July , ” Mr. Armstrong said in his statement .
“ But it is hard to say at this moment whether that will be advisable . ”

Allen Garfield, a Memorable Supporting Actor, Is Dead at 80 .
2020-04-10 20:48:55 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
Allen Garfield , a veteran character actor who was a memorable presence in “ The Conversation , ” “ Nashville ” and many other films , died on Tuesday in Los Angeles .
He was 80 .
His sister and only immediate survivor , Lois Goorwitz , said the cause was complications of Covid-19 .
Since suffering a stroke in 2004 , Mr. Garfield had been living at the Motion Picture Television Fund Home , a retirement facility , where several staffers and some residents have tested positive for the coronavirus .
Mr. Garfield began studying acting at night while working as a sportswriter for The Star - Ledger of New Jersey .
He later joined the Actors Studio , where he studied under Lee Strasberg .
“ I became an actor in order to be trained by the masters , which I was , at the Actors Studio , ” Mr. Garfield said in a television interview .
“ From the moment I stepped foot in the Actors Studio , I audaciously stepped out and said who I was , for better or for worse .
I put my stamp on things as an actor and as a director . ”
An immediately recognizable supporting player , Mr. Garfield became a screen mainstay in the 1970s , appearing in such notable films as Francis Ford Coppola ’s “ The Conversation ” ( 1974 ) , Robert Altman ’s “ Nashville ” ( 1975 ) , Michael Ritche ’s “ The Candidate ” ( 1972 ) and Richard Rush ’s “ The Stunt Man ” ( 1980 ) .
He was best known for playing talky , anxious characters , bringing an intense authenticity to his portrayals of salesmen , corrupt businessmen and sweaty politicians .
In “ The Conversation , ” he played a weaselly surveillance expert who was a rival to Gene Hackman ’s character .
Mr. Coppola would cast him again in “ One From the Heart ” ( 1981 ) and “ The Cotton Club ” ( 1984 ) .
In “ Nashville , ” Mr. Garfield was the husband and manager of a country singer played by Ronee Blakley .
In “ The Candidate , ” he was a brash advertising expert working with a young Senate candidate played by Robert Redford .
In Tony Scott ’s “ Beverly Hills Cop II ” ( 1987 ) , he was the furious police chief who goes on an expletive - laden tirade against Eddie Murphy , Judge Reinhold and John Ashton before getting fired himself .
On television , he was seen on episodes of “ The Bob Newhart Show , ” “ Chicago Hope , ” “ The West Wing ” and many other series .
Mr. Garfield was born Allen Goorwitz in Newark on Nov. 22 , 1939 .
( Years after taking the professional surname Garfield , he briefly returned to calling himself Allen Goorwitz in the late 1970s and early ’ 80s . )
He was a Golden Gloves boxer before becoming a journalist — he once said he took up boxing as a way to deal with anti - Semitic bullies — but had committed himself to acting by the late 1960s .
After playing small parts in films by Woody Allen , Brian De Palma , Milos Forman and Robert Downey Sr . , he was cast in a rare lead role , as a bumbling private detective , in the 1971 comedy - mystery “ Cry Uncle , ” directed by John G. Avildsen .
He had a stroke before he began filming the Roman Polanski film “ The Ninth Gate ” in 1999 — Mr. Polanski made his partial paralysis part of his character — but he continued to act until shortly before having a second stroke in 2004 .
The New York Times contributed reporting .

Black-Owned Businesses Could Face Hurdles in Federal Aid Program .
2020-04-10 20:38:39 +00:00 .
However , only 78 of 950 such organizations are participating in the government program , according to a Treasury spokesman .
The rest do not have authorization to participate because they have not previously been approved by the Small Business Administration to make loans backed by the agency .
Their representatives say they do not yet have clarity from the government on how to get that approval quickly enough to participate in the emergency program .
On Monday , the leaders of the Opportunity Finance Network , a group that represents the community development organizations , met with Treasury officials to suggest ways that the government could quickly approve the lenders for the program .
But later , in a statement posted on its website , the group said that Treasury officials were “ noncommittal ” about what , if any , actions they would take in response to the group ’s recommendations .
A Treasury spokesman did not provide a timeline for when more community organizations might be approved to participate .
In their letter , the group of black investors , including Ariel ’s co - chief executive Mellody Hobson , who serves on the board of JPMorgan Chase , proposed that a quarter of the $ 250 billion in additional money for small businesses that Congress is considering adding to the program be set aside for black businesses .
“ This roughly $ 68 billion will only begin to address the disparities within capitalism brought into relief by coronavirus , ” they wrote .
“ By prioritizing clients that already have existing lines of credit , black businesses and nonprofits find themselves yet again excluded from live - saving relief . ”
Some federal lawmakers have proposed that part of the second stimulus could be directed to local business development organizations that focus specifically on helping minority businesses so that they can hire lawyers and offer advice to minority - owned businesses about how to get help during the pandemic .
The $ 2 trillion CARES Act allotted $ 10 million for minority chambers , but some lawmakers say that is far from enough .
During a call on Wednesday with Vice President Mike Pence , members of the Congressional Black Caucus expressed concern that funds from the program were not reaching black business owners , according to Representative Emanuel Cleaver II , Democrat of Missouri and a caucus member who was briefed on the call after it took place .
Mr. Pence said that the program had gotten off to a shaky start in general , Mr. Cleaver said .
“ He did admit that they had had some difficulty , ” Mr. Cleaver said .
“ The fear now is that if we do n’t act quickly , by the time we get the help for minority businesses by way of having advisers through minority chambers , the fear is the money will be exhausted . ”

The Coronavirus Derails Marina Abramovic’s Maria Callas Opera .
2020-04-09 09:04:06 +00:00 .
“ Later on , I knew everything about her , ” Ms. Abramovic said .
“ I read eight biographies , all of them , and there was so much similarity that I see in myself .
We are Sagittarius , the same ; we had bad mothers .
And then , also , this incredible intensity in the emotions , that she can be fragile , and strong at the same time . ”
For “ The 7 Deaths Deaths of Maria Callas , ” Ms. Abramovic selected the arias , beginning with “ Addio del passato ” from “ La Traviata ” and reaching a climax with “ Casta Diva ” from “ Norma , ” to reflect those emotional states , and she worked with the music video director Nabil Elderkin to develop the short films , which play onstage while the singers perform live .
Last November , she flew to Los Angeles to record the films with Mr. Dafoe .
In an interview , Mr. Dafoe said he had gotten to know Ms. Abramovic when he was acting with the Wooster Group , the experimental New York theater company .
In the early 2000s , Ms. Abramovic was living in a co - op in the same downtown building as the theater , and she would come to see its shows .
The two became friends and later collaborated on “ The Life and Death of Marina Abramovic , ” a stage work by the avant - garde director Robert Wilson .
In six of the videos , Mr. Dafoe plays Ms. Abramovic ’s lover or assassin ; in all of them , Ms. Abramovic dies .
In one , Mr. Dafoe handles a python that strangles Ms. Abramovic , to the strains of the “ Ave Maria ” Desdemona sings shortly before being throttled by the title character in Verdi ’s “ Otello . ”
“ I ’ve known her for years , and I like being part of her work , ” Mr. Dafoe said .
“ If she wants me to kill her , well , that ’s quite an honor . ”
In another video , Mr. Dafoe stabs Ms. Abramovic to the Habanera from “ Carmen . ”
Susan McClary , a professor of musicology at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland , said in an interview that Bizet ’s opera had established the trope of the tragic heroine who gets murdered onstage .
Women had died in opera from the art form ’s beginnings , she said , but the audience did n’t see it until the 19th century .

Flying Via a Smaller Airport? It May Take a While .
2020-04-09 09:03:59 +00:00 .
As part of the government ’s Coronavirus Aid , Relief , and Economic Security ( CARES ) Act that offers financial support to United States airlines , the airlines must continue to serve the airports they did before March 1 , as long as it is “ reasonable and practicable , ” but routing can change , international destinations are not included , and exceptions are granted .
Airlines serving different airports within one metro area can consolidate service to one of those airports .
The frequency of the required flights is determined by the airlines ’ schedule before March .
If an airline was providing at least one flight a day at least five days per week , it now is required to provide at least one flight per day , five days per week , for that area .
If the area was served fewer than five days per week , the airline needs to service it once a week .
But if too few passengers book tickets on a flight or no one shows up at the gate , the flight can be canceled .
The airlines can change routing , so cities that may have only recently gained nonstops are losing them , and passengers hoping to travel from those cities may have to fly circuitous routes that go through an airline ’s hubs .
United changed about 130 nonstops to connecting flights through one or even two of its hubs .
Appleton , Wis. , a small city in the northeast part of the state , got its first nonstops to Denver in June 2018 .
Now , fliers are being offered a route that goes from Denver south to Atlanta , back north to Chicago , and then on to Appleton .
The short United Airlines flight from Los Angeles International Airport to Palm Springs will now go through San Francisco or Denver .
Delta ’s former nonstop between Raleigh - Durham , N.C. , and Seattle now flies through Detroit , Minneapolis or Atlanta .
Some of the suspended nonstop flights may still appear on the companies ’ websites , but these will be updated soon .
Kathy Osborne decided on March 30 to leave New York for Fort Myers , Fla. , where her parents own a home , and purchased a ticket for April 4 .
“ We wanted to get out of there , ” said Ms. Osborne of her attempt with her fiancé to leave town .
“ It was truly scary because people in our neighborhood did n’t seem to be taking the quarantine seriously at all , ” she said .
Her first reservation with United Airlines was canceled the day after she purchased it , and the airline said she would n’t be able to fly for two weeks .
The airport at Fort Myers has dropped to about 85 arrivals per day , down from about 230 per day , over the last month , according to Flightradar24 .

When a Gaming Fantasy Is Eerily Close to Reality .
2020-04-08 09:04:31 +00:00 .
The only thing that has significantly slowed Plague Inc.
this year is the Chinese government .
In late February , as the number of reported Covid-19 cases in China neared 80,000 , regulators banned the game for “ illegal ” content , according to a notice shared online by Ndemic Creations .
Plague Inc. has not been sold there since , and Mr. Vaughan said his studio had not received more explanation for the ban .
“ You could draw your own assumptions on it , ” he said .
In Plague Inc. ’s absence , numerous copycats have cropped up , according to Daniel Ahmad , an analyst at Niko Partners and a longtime observer of the Chinese game market .
China has also seen a burst of explicitly anti - Covid-19 games , he said .
One , called Battle of Pathogens , replaces the fruit of Fruit Ninja , a popular fruit - slashing game , with pathogens to slice .
Mr. Vaughan laments Plague Inc. ’s fate in China , but he has spent his energy working on a new mode of the game that will flip the dynamic and let players fight the spread of a pandemic .
It is something he said he started thinking about before he released the game and is motivated to make it now .
Work on this new mode is delaying other ideas for Plague Inc. , including a plan to work vaccine opponents into the game , which Mr. Vaughan wanted to implement in response to a popular online petition last year .
( His studio paired an announcement in March about the new mode with a pledge to donate a quarter - million dollars to organizations fighting Covid-19 . )
The game developer intends to consult with disease experts and he expects this new way of playing Plague Inc. to let people role - play their own pandemic response .
“ You ’ve got to tread between reacting not enough and reacting too much to an outbreak , ” he said .
“ And you ’re never going to know what the right answer was until afterwards . ”
While he is critical of real - world governments for reacting too slowly to the spread of Covid-19 , he speculated that in this mode , players may find that locking down society too soon might impair the ability of people to feed themselves or for society to find a cure .
Mr. Vaughan is not sure when he will finish making the new mode .
He is not even sure how all of its underlying systems will function : “ It ’s a bit like taking an old clock apart using your mind and having all the bits floating around in the air in front of you , and then putting it back together a different way and seeing if it works . ”

Trump Ousts Pandemic Spending Watchdog Known for Independence .
2020-04-07 17:39:17 +00:00 .
Mr. O’Brien ’s replacement of Mr. Fine , who remains the No . 2 official at the Pentagon watchdog office , does not mean that Mr. O’Brien becomes the chairman of the pandemic oversight efforts .
The larger group of inspectors general will now need to decide who to select for that position .
Last week , in announcing Mr. Fine ’s short - lived role , Mr. Horowitz had praised him as “ uniquely qualified ” to run the oversight effort , citing his 11 years as the top Justice Department watchdog and his four years as the top Pentagon one .
“ The inspector general community recognizes the need for transparency surrounding , and strong and effective independent oversight of , the federal government ’s spending in response to this public health crisis , ” Mr. Horowitz said at the time .
Late last month , several hours after Mr. Trump signed the $ 2 trillion coronavirus relief and stimulus bill with fanfare on television , he issued a signing statement challenging a key safeguard congressional Democrats insisted upon as a condition of approving $ 500 billion in corporate bailout funds : that an inspector general be empowered to demand information about how the Treasury Department spends the money and who would be required to tell Congress if executive branch officials unreasonably balk .
In his signing statement , Mr. Trump effectively declared that he could control what information goes to Congress about any disputes over access to information about how and why the money is spent .
Then late on Friday night , Mr. Trump fired the inspector general for the intelligence community , Michael K. Atkinson , whose insistence on telling Congress about a whistle - blower complaint about Mr. Trump ’s dealings with Ukraine triggered impeachment proceedings last fall .
Circumventing a law that requires 30 - day notice to Congress before that official can be removed , he also placed Mr. Atkinson on immediate administrative leave .
At the same time , Mr. Trump also announced a slew of inspector general nominees , including a White House aide , Brian D. Miller , to be the watchdog over how the Treasury Department spends $ 500 billion in corporate relief , and Jason Abend , a Customs and Border Protection official , as the new Defense Department inspector general .

Sergio Rossi, Italian Shoemaker and Ready-to-Wear Ally, Dies at 84 .
2020-04-06 19:37:48 +00:00 .
This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic .
As a teenager , Sergio Rossi and his brother , the sons of a bespoke shoemaker , would travel up and down the Italian Riviera selling shoes in the years after World War II , as the country was rebuilding .
Mr. Rossi fully joined the family business in the 1950s and by 1968 had introduced a namesake line , becoming one of the first major figures in the Italian footwear industry
Mr. Rossi died on Thursday in Cesena , Italy at 84 .
The cause was the coronavirus , a spokeswoman for the company that carries his name said .
Mr. Rossi was part of the generation of Italian artisans who emerged after World War II determined to take the country ’s expertise in leatherwork and accessories from local family businesses to the world .
He was known for his perfectly balanced , albeit often spindly , heels as well as styles like the Opanca sandal , with a sole that curved up the sides to blend in with the foot , and his signature Godiva stiletto , He was also among the first footwear specialists to lend his talents to ready - to - wear designers , collaborating with names like Versace and Dolce Gabbana to create the footwear for their collections .
Each Sergio Rossi shoe was famous for requiring 120 steps and 14 hours to make .
In a video post on Facebook on Friday , Mayor Luciana Garbuglia of San Mauro Pascoli , an Italian shoemaking center near Cesena on the Adriatic coast , where Mr. Rossi was born and lived , noted that Mr. Rossi had opened a production facility in the town in 1951 that has became a major source of jobs .
Mr. Rossi was born in 1935 and learned his trade from his father .
As a major designer , he reached global prominence in the 1970s in part through his work with the upstart designer Gianni Versace .
The way Mr. Rossi ’s sensuous heels complemented Mr. Versace ’s clothes elevated shoes to an integral part of a look , as opposed to an afterthought .
Mr. Rossi , who opened his first store in San Mauro in 1980 , also worked with Dolce Gabbana and Azzedine Alaïa in the 1980s and ’ 90s .
Over the next two decades he continued to expand in Europe and America , and his son , Gianvito , came to work at his side .
In 1999 , during the flurry of consolidation among fashion brands that laid the groundwork for the modern luxury industry , Gucci Group ( later Kering ) bought the Sergio Rossi brand for approximately $ 96.2 million ; Mr. Rossi remained as chairman and design director , though both he and his son later left the business .
His son now has his own line under his name .
Kering sold the Rossi brand in 2015 to the private equity company Investindustrial , which relaunched Sergio Rossi the following year .
“ He loved women and was able to capture a woman ’s femininity in a unique way , creating the perfect extension of a woman ’s leg through his shoes , ” Richard Sciutto , the shoe company ’s chief executive , said of Mr. Rossi in an Instagram post .
The company has preserved his legacy with an archive of sketches and documents in their San Mauro facility , along with shoes , lasts and other accessories .
Thus far , it has 6,000 items .

Suddenly, I See Myself Everywhere .
2020-04-06 11:19:50 +00:00 .
This was n’t out of pride .
I ’d simply forgot .
When you are used to answering most of your own questions on a daily basis — what will I wear ; what do I want to eat ; when do I want to leave — the asking muscle gets awfully weak .
In the examining room , I scoffed when the nurse kindly told me most people bring someone because they want emotional support .
It was n’t until an hour later , when I was trapped between the two metals panels of an imaging machine — so tightly that I cried out more than once — and being told not to move as they squeezed my left breast tighter and tighter , that I realized my mistake .
I did need someone .
Badly .
For a few very long moments , the only person I wanted was my mother .
It was a realization that took my breath away , not only because my mother died nearly three years ago , but also because even when she was alive I did not crave her presence .
But of all the people in our lives , our mothers are the ones who are required to show up for us , unconditionally and unasked .
The tests results came back fine , but I spent the next weeks wondering if I ’d somehow become a person who was too good at being alone , and how one went about fixing that .
And now suddenly , I do n’t have to .
The language of this pandemic is the language of isolation .
In her book “ The Lonely City , ” Olivia Laing writes , “ so much of the pain of loneliness is to do with concealment , with feeling compelled to hide vulnerability , to tuck ugliness away , to cover up scars as if they are literally repulsive . ”
These days , as we are forced to conceal ourselves , we are at the same time required to conceal nothing else .
Even so , I was unprepared for the cacophony of regular voices that entered my world .
Shortly after Governor Cuomo asked us to stay home , I woke up with symptoms consistent with coronavirus ( like so many , I did n’t qualify for testing ) .
The daily calls I was already getting turned into twice daily ones .
To be outside marriage and motherhood is to be outside most of the rituals available to women , but suddenly I ’d been thrust into the epicenter of new ones .

