Oil prices decline $3 a barrel as market remains uncertain on supply outlook .
2020-04-05 23:00:10 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
Global benchmark oil prices traded as much as $ 3 a barrel lower as the market opened for Monday ’s trading session , reflecting fears of oversupply after Saudi Arabia and Russia postponed to Thursday a meeting about a potential pact to cut production .
FILE PHOTO :
The sun is seen behind a crude oil pump jack in the Permian Basin in Loving County , Texas , U.S. , November 22 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Angus Mordant / File Photo
Late last week , prices had surged , with both U.S. and Brent contracts posting their largest weekly percentage gains on record due to hopes that OPEC and its allies would strike a global deal to cut crude supply worldwide .
The COVID-19 pandemic caused by the novel coronavirus has cut demand and a month - long price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia has left the market awash in crude .
During the month , prices have plummeted as the market has waited for a plan to cut production from OPEC and its allies .
Over the weekend , Saudi Arabia sent a signal that a production cut deal may be ahead , potentially muting the price decline .
U.S. President Donald Trump said he will put pressure on Saudi Arabia and its allies for such a deal .
“ I do n’t know that anyone is going to get too aggressively short before the meeting , ” said Robert McNally , president of Rapidan Energy Group in Bethesda , Maryland .
Brent crude LCOc1 traded lower by $ 2.39 a barrel , or 7 % , by 6:16 p.m. EDT ( 10:16 GMT ) after earlier touching a session low of $ 30.03 a barrel .
U.S. crude CLc1 traded down $ 2.41 a barrel , or 8.5 % , at $ 25.93 a barrel .
Saudi Arabia ’s decision to postpone its posting of the international prices for its crude for the first time indicates that it is not eager to flood the market with low - priced crude before a potential agreement .
“ That ’s a pretty clear sign that they are open to cutting production in May , ” McNally said .
The kingdom delayed the release until Friday to wait for the outcome of the meeting between OPEC and its allies regarding possible output cuts , a Saudi source told Reuters .
Trump said on Saturday that he will put tariffs on Saudi and Russian production , potentially accelerating an output cutback .
OPEC and its allies postponed an emergency meeting scheduled for Monday , led by Saudi Arabia , where the oil cuts could be agreed upon .
A senior Saudi source told Reuters on Sunday that the kingdom would now host the meeting via videoconference on Thursday and the delay was to allow more time to bring other producers on board .
Russian President Vladimir Putin put the blame for the crash in prices on Saudi Arabia on Friday - prompting a response from Riyadh the following day disputing Putin ’s assertions .
OPEC and its allies are working on a global agreement for an unprecedented oil production cut equivalent to around 10 % of worldwide supply in what they expect to be a global effort including countries that do not exert state control over output , such as the United States .
Trump has , however , made no commitment to take the extraordinary step of persuading U.S. companies to cut output .
Per Magnus Nysveen , head of analysis at Rystad Energy , said the decline in global demand because of the coronavirus pandemic and the global lockdowns was larger than the proposed cuts by the OPEC+ alliance .
“ It is not strange for the market to hike prices by enthusiasm such as Friday ’s , but for the levels to stay stable for more than a day or two , it takes concrete developments and deals on the ground , ” he said .
Reporting by Ahmad Ghaddar and Julia Payne ; Additional reporting by Jessica Resnick - Ault ; Writing by Rania El Gamal ;
Editing by Pravin Char , Peter Cooney and Diane Craft

PGA Championship rescheduled for August: report .
2020-04-05 22:54:28 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
The PGA Championship , one of golf ’s four majors , has been rescheduled for Aug. 6 - 9 after being postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic , the San Francisco Chronicle reported on Sunday .
FILE PHOTO :
Spectators walk by a PGA logo during the first round of the 88th PGA Championship in Medinah , Illinois August 17 , 2006 .
REUTERS / Matt Sullivan
The event will remain at the city ’s Harding Park course , the paper said .
The championship is run by the PGA of America , which did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
The PGA Championship was originally planned for May 14 - 17 but the PGA of America announced on March 17 that the event had been postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak .
The spread of the virus has prompted the shutdown of almost all sport worldwide .
The first major championship of the year , the Masters , was scheduled to start this Thursday at Augusta National , but the club announced on March 13 that it had been postponed .
The U.S. Open , scheduled for Winged Foot in New York from June 18 - 21 , and the July 16 - 19 British Open at Royal St. George ’s in Kent , are still officially on the schedule .
But it is believed an announcement on the postponement of the U.S. Open will be made in the next few days .
The major championship organisers and the PGA Tour , which runs the weekly circuit of non - major tournaments , have been discussing a revamped schedule .
However , any plans to resume the professional circuit depend on the coronavirus subsiding over the next couple of months .
Reporting by Andrew Both in Cary , North Carolina ,
editing by Ed Osmond

Boeing extends Washington state production shutdown indefinitely .
2020-04-05 22:16:05 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Boeing Co ( BA.N ) said on Sunday it would extend the suspension of production operations at its Washington state facilities until further notice amid the coronavirus outbreak .
FILE PHOTO :
A worker leaves the Boeing Everett Factory , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Everett , Washington , U.S. March 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
David Ryder / File Photo
The largest U.S. planemaker said on March 23 it would halt production at its Washington state twin - aisle jetliner factory as a temporary measure to help fight the outbreak of the respiratory disease .
Production had been expected to resume early this week .
Boeing declined to say when production could resume .
It said the actions were “ being taken in light of the company ’s continuing focus on the health and safety of employees , current assessment of the spread of COVID-19 in Washington state , the reliability of the supply chain and additional recommendations from government health authorities . ”
Boeing will stop paying about 30,000 production workers this week in Washington state after it previously doubled to 10 days the amount of paid leave it gave to production workers after the suspension .
Employees can use paid time off , vacation and sick leave in the interim and will continue to get medical benefits .
Boeing said on Sunday about 135 members of its 160,000 - person global workforce had tested positive for the coronavirus .
The Seattle Times reported that as of Friday , Boeing had 95 employees who tested positive for the respiratory disease in Washington state , up from 54 a week earlier .
The newspaper said 14 of those work at the Everett widebody jet plant .
During the suspension , Boeing will implement additional health and safety measures , including “ new visual cues to encourage physical distancing , ” more frequent cleaning of work and common areas and staggered shift times .
“ We will take this time to continue to listen to our incredible team and assess applicable government direction , the spread of the coronavirus in the community and the reliability of our suppliers , ” said Boeing Commercial Airplanes Chief Executive Stan Deal .
Boeing ’s airline customers have deferred taking new aircraft and making pre - delivery downpayments , compounding a crisis over the year - old grounding of Boeing ’s previously fast - selling 737 MAX jet after two fatal crashes .
Boeing halted 737 production in January .
Boeing asked last month for at least $ 60 billion in U.S. government loan guarantees for itself and other American aerospace manufacturers to help the embattled industry withstand a coronavirus - related cash drain .
Boeing said last week it would suspend operations at its Ridley Township , Pennsylvania , facilities until April 20 because of the outbreak .
The site includes manufacturing and production facilities for military rotorcraft , including the H-47 Chinook , V-22 Osprey and MH-139A Grey Wolf .
Reporting by David Shepardson ; Editing by Daniel Wallis and
Peter Cooney

S.Africa coronavirus cases exceed 900, Ramaphosa urges G20 aid .
2020-04-05 20:21:04 +00:00 .
PRETORIA ( Reuters ) - South Africa ’s number of coronavirus cases jumped to more than 900 on Thursday and President Cyril Ramaphosa called for richer countries to help African nations deal with the economic fallout , hours before the start of a countrywide lockdown .
President Cyril Ramaphosa delivers his State of the Nation address at parliament in Cape Town , South Africa , February 13 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Sumaya Hisham / File Photo
The president underwent a test on Tuesday on the advice of doctors and received a negative result on Wednesday night .
“ We now have more than 900 people who are infected , as the minister told me , and we fear that it might rise even much further than that , ” the president said in Pretoria .
“ We as Africa have called upon the countries of the G20 , particularly the more developed economies , to support stimulus packages to Africa , ” he said , adding that they had also called for IMF and World Bank debt relief .
Ramaphosa has been praised for ordering some of the toughest measures on the continent , including a 21 - day lockdown to begin on Friday morning from midnight .
He has deployed the army to support the police .
But the lockdown threatens to cripple an economy already beset by power cuts and shrinking since the end of last year .
“ I ’ve got two months cash in the bank .
Nothing more .
After that we close down , ” Rajan Govender , 51 , said at his family - run Indian restaurant in a Johannesburg suburb as he prepared to send staff on compulsory paid leave .
“ We can weather a few weeks , but not longer . ”
Mining and metal refining companies , the core of South Africa ’s economy , are either reducing or shutting down production altogether .
Mines Minister Gwede Mantashe said on Wednesday that South Africa will continue to process platinum group metals , even as gold , chrome , manganese are scaled down .
The rand has hovered around four year lows for the past two and a half weeks , and on Thursday it weakened from a brief respite , as relief faded over an announcement by the central bank of a quantitative easing programme .
State power utility Eskom has applied for its critical staff to be exempt from the stay at home order so electricity supplies will not be interrupted .
It has said coal supplies are adequate .
Businesses are bracing for further damage from the lockdown , with Airlink becoming the latest local airline to suspend flights from midnight on Thursday .
State - owned South African Airways ( SAA ) , already massively unprofitable and with an unsustainable debt burden , has also cancelled flights .
SAA ’s creditors have authorised an extension of a deadline for the airline ’s business rescue plan until May 29 , the airline ’s administrators said on Thursday .
Additional reporting by Tim Cocks , Mfuneko Toyana , Emma Rumney and Tanisha Heiberg in Johannesburg ;
Writing by Tim Cocks ,
Editing by Angus MacSwan

Saudi Arabia delays May crude prices until after OPEC+ meeting: Saudi source .
2020-04-05 16:17:13 +00:00 .
DUBAI ( Reuters ) - Saudi Aramco ( 2222.SE ) will delay the release of its crude official selling prices ( OSP ) for May until April 10 to wait for the outcome of a meeting between OPEC and its allies regarding possible output cuts , a senior Saudi source familiar with the matter said on Sunday .
FILE PHOTO :
A view shows branded oil tanks at Saudi Aramco oil facility in Abqaiq , Saudi Arabia October 12 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Maxim Shemetov
“ It is an unprecedented measure that has not been taken by Aramco before .
May OSPs will depend on how the OPEC+ meeting concludes .
We are doing what we can to make it successful , including taking this extraordinary step to delay the OSPs , ” the Saudi source said .
Saudi Aramco typically issues its OSPs by the 5th of each month , setting the trend for Iranian , Kuwaiti and Iraqi prices and affecting more than 12 million barrels of oil per day bound for Asia .
[ CRU / OSP ]
OPEC and allies led by Russia , a group known as OPEC+ , are due to meet on Thursday to discuss a possible new global crude supply cut to end a price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia which has prompted U.S. President Donald Trump to intervene .
The Saudi source said that Riyadh wants to avoid a repeat of the outcome of a March meeting where oil talks collapsed due to Russia ’s refusal to cut output .
Coordinated cuts between OPEC+ members expired on March 31 , having helped support crude prices since they began in January 2017 .
The OPEC+ meeting was initially due to take place on Monday , but was postponed to April 9 “ to allow for more time to reach out to all producers including OPEC+ and others ” , the Saudi source said .
Oil prices hit an 18 - year low on March 30 due to a slump in demand caused by lockdowns to contain the coronavirus outbreak , and the failure of OPEC and other producers to extend coordinated output cuts .
The OPEC+ group is debating a global oil production pact to cut 10 million bpd or about 10 % of global oil supply , an OPEC source told Reuters on Friday .
Any agreement should include producers from outside of the OPEC+ alliance , OPEC sources said .
Asian refiners have called on Saudi Arabia , the world ’s top oil exporter , to slash OSPs for a third straight month after Middle East benchmarks and refining margins fell amid ample supplies and lower demand due to the coronavirus , a Reuters survey showed .
Reporting by Rania El Gamal ; editing by Jason Neely and
Jan Harvey

Mysterious Shroud of Turin on virtual display for coronavirus prayer .
2020-04-05 15:23:12 +00:00 .
VATICAN CITY ( Reuters ) -
The Shroud of Turin , the mysterious linen some Christians believe is Jesus ’ burial cloth , will go on virtual display on Saturday , an extraordinary showing to help the faithful worldwide pray for an end to the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
Faithfuls look at the Holy Shroud in the Cathedral of Turin during the opening day of the exposition April 19 , 2015 .
According to the official website , worshippers believe the Shroud , which has a faint impression of a man with crucifixion wounds , wrapped the body of Jesus .
The Holy Shroud exposition will run until June 24 .
REUTERS / Giorgio Perottino / File Photo Turin Archbishop Cesare Nosiglia made the announcement on Saturday night , saying he had received “ thousands and thousands ” of requests to display the shroud now .
It will be displayed on April 11 , Holy Saturday , when Christians believe Jesus was dead in a tomb the day before his resurrection .
Nosiglia will pray before the shroud , and the event will be live - streamed and televised .
It is stored in a climate - controlled vault in the city ’s cathedral and rarely shown because of its extremely fragile state .
It was last shown very briefly in 2018 for a group of young people .
Several million people viewed it in 2015 , the last major showing .
More than 1,000 people have died from the novel coronavirus in Piedmont , the region of which Turin is the capital .
Piedmont borders with Lombardy , the hardest - hit region .
More than 15,500 people have died countrywide .
The Catholic Church has not taken an official position on the shroud , which bears an image , reversed like a photographic negative , of a man with the wounds of a crucifixion .
It shows the back and front of a bearded man , his arms crossed on his chest .
It is marked by what appear to be rivulets of blood from wounds in the wrists , feet and side .
Sceptics say it is a masterful medieval forgery and carbon dating tests in 1988 dated it to between 1260 and 1390 .
But some have challenged their accuracy , saying the cloth was corrupted by a 16th - century fire and restoration attempts .
The shroud will be displayed on Saturday without the public .
Nosiglia said he would pray before the cloth starting at 5 p.m. ( 1500 GMT ) and invited the faithful to join from home .
It will be the latest extraordinary event held by the Catholic Church in the time of pandemic .
Last month , Pope Francis held a dramatic , solitary prayer service in an empty St. Peter ’s Square , urging the world to see the crisis as a test of solidarity and a reminder of basic values ..
The Vatican has moved a centuries - old wooden crucifix normally kept in a Rome church to St. Peter ’s Basilica so that it can be seen during papal events .
According to tradition , a plague that hit Rome in 1522 began subsiding after the crucifix was taken around the streets of the Italian capital for 16 days .
Reporting By Philip Pullella ;
Editing by Pravin Char

Oil prices set to open lower due to Saudi-Russia row .
2020-04-05 13:09:55 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) -
Global benchmark oil prices are expected to open lower on Monday as a dispute between top crude exporters Russia and Saudi Arabia raises concerns of another collapse in talks to curb production at a meeting this week .
FILE PHOTO :
The sun sets behind a crude oil pump jack on a drill pad in the Permian Basin in Loving County , Texas , U.S. November 24 , 2019 .
Picture taken November 24 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Angus Mordant / File Photo Russian President Vladimir Putin put the blame for the crash in prices on Saudi Arabia on Friday - prompting a firm response from Riyadh the following day , disputing Putin ’s claims .
Crude futures surged for a second day on Friday , with both U.S. and Brent contracts posting their largest weekly percentage gains on record due to hopes that a global deal to cut crude supply worldwide would be struck at talks , which are now set for April 9 .
The sharp rebound from weeks of losses came after U.S. President Donald Trump said Moscow and Riyadh would negotiate to end a price war that slashed prices by more than half last month .
“ Given the slimmer chances of a deal , prices are likely to give up the gains made last week that were a short - covering rally induced by Trump ’s comments , ” said Amrita Sen , co - founder of the Energy Aspects consultancy .
OPEC and its allies are working on a global agreement for an unprecedented oil production cut equivalent to around 10 % of worldwide supply in what they expect to be a global effort including countries that do not exert state control over output , such as the United States .
Trump has , however , made no commitment to take the extraordinary step of persuading U.S. companies to cut output .
Per Magnus Nysveen , head of analysis at Rystad Energy , said the decline in global demand due to the coronavirus pandemic and the global lockdowns was larger than the proposed cuts by the OPEC+ alliance .
“ It is not strange for the market to hike prices by enthusiasm such as Friday ’s , but for the levels to stay stable for more than a day or two , it takes concrete developments and deals on the ground , ” he said .
On Friday , Brent crude futures rose 13.9 % , or $ 4.17 a barrel , to settle at $ 34.11 .
U.S. West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) crude CLc1 rose $ 3.02 , or 11.93 % to settle at $ 28.34 .
OPEC and its allies postponed an emergency meeting , led by Saudi Arabia , where the oil cuts could be agreed upon .
A senior Saudi source told Reuters on Sunday , that the kingdom would host the meeting via video conference on April 9 and the delay was to allow more time to bring other producers on board .
Saudi Aramco will delay the release of its crude official selling prices ( OSP ) for May until April 10 to wait for the outcome of a meeting between OPEC and its allies regarding possible output cuts , the Saudi source said .
“ As Aramco seems to have postponed the release of their official selling prices for May , it seems the kingdom still believes an oil production cut deal is possible , ” said UBS commodities analyst Giovanni Staunovo .
“ The biggest challenge remains how to split up those cuts among producers , particularly if U.S. oil producers will not join with voluntary cuts . ”
Writing by Rania El Gamal ;
Editing by Pravin Char

Trump says he plans to speak to China's Xi later on Thursday .
2020-04-04 23:30:47 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - President Donald Trump will receive recommendations this weekend from his advisers about the next steps in the battle to stop the coronavirus and reignite the U.S. economy , Vice President Mike Pence said on Thursday .
Trump has been pressing for days to get the economy moving again despite an increasing number of U.S. coronavirus cases that the strict measures recommended by his advisers are meant to curb .
Trump and his coronavirus team on March 16 put in place recommendations for people nationwide to reduce social and professional interactions for 15 days , including by schooling children at home and not gathering in groups of more than 10 people .
Pence said that as day 15 approached , the president ’s advisers planned to deliver recommendations to him based on the latest data .
“ We ’ll be presenting this weekend ( to ) the president a range of recommendations and ... additional guidance for going forward , ” Pence said , adding that the president had made it clear that he wants to “ ‘ open the country up . ’
But we ’re going to do that responsibly . ”
Trump said he had told state governors earlier in the day in a letter that his administration would be updating its guidance on social distancing related to the pandemic .
“ We will vanquish this virus , ” he said .
“ We have to get back to work .
Our people want to work . ”
The president has said he would like the economy to open up again by Easter on April 12 .
Trump said he was likely to speak with President Xi Jinping of China later on Thursday and cast doubt on the figures provided by Beijing for coronavirus cases .
Meanwhile , the number of reported infections in the United States rose to at least 81,378 , according to a Reuters tally , surpassing China and Italy to become the most in the world .
Trump has praised Xi ’s handling of the coronavirus while also emphasizing that the disease originated in China and accusing the country of not being transparent enough about it .
Trump , who has been holed up in the White House for nearly two and a half weeks as political rallies and other trips were canceled , said he planned to visit Norfolk , Virginia on Saturday to send off the Navy ’s USNS Comfort hospital ship as it sails for New York City .
It is expected to arrive on Monday .
U.S. President Donald Trump addresses the coronavirus task force daily briefing at the White House in Washington , U.S. , March 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Jonathan Ernst
“ I ’m going to go out and I ’ll kiss it goodbye , ” Trump said .
A second Navy hospital ship , the USNS Mercy , was dispatched to Los Angeles from San Diego earlier this week .
The president called on the House of Representatives to pass a $ 2 trillion stimulus package to fight the coronavirus right away after the Senate passed the bill on Wednesday .
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has said she expects the chamber to pass the bill on Friday .
Reporting by Steve Holland and Jeff Mason ; Additional reporting by Eric Beech , Alexandra Alper and David Brunnstrom ;
Editing by Daniel
Wallis

Kenny replaces McCarthy as Ireland manager .
2020-04-04 17:21:50 +00:00 .
Soccer Football - Euro Under 21 Qualifier - Group 1 - Sweden v Ireland - Kalmar Arena , Kalmar , Sweden - September 10 , 2019 .
Ireland 's coach Stephen Kenny gestures .
Patric Soderstrom / TT News Agency via REUTERS DUBLIN ( Reuters ) -
Mick McCarthy ’s second stint as Ireland manager ended on Saturday as the country ’s football association ( FAI ) announced he was being immediately replaced by Stephen Kenny .
Former Ireland defender McCarthy , 61 , took over in November 2018 and was poised to lead them into last month ’s Euro 2020 qualifying playoffs before the coronavirus pandemic took hold .
Ex - Dundalk manager Kenny was due to replace McCarthy after the Euros but with the playoffs delayed and the tournament put back a year the FAI have brought the transition forward .
“ The Football Association of Ireland announces that Mick McCarthy is to be succeeded as national team manager by Stephen Kenny with immediate effect , ” a statement read .
“ The handover has been agreed with both men in light of the delay to the European Championship play - offs caused by the COVID-19 pandemic . ”
McCarthy ’s contract was due to expire on July 31 , after the Euro 2020 finals that have now been re - scheduled for 2021 .
“ This move allows Stephen Kenny time to plan for the European Championship play - off semi - final against Slovakia later in the year , ” the statement said .
Kenny , 48 , has been promoted from under-21s coach .
McCarthy ’s last match in charge was a 1 - 1 draw with Denmark in Dublin in November , meaning they missed automatic qualification for the Euros .
Reporting by Martyn Herman ;
editing by Ken Ferris

English leagues say facing difficult decisions over virus impact .
2020-04-04 17:11:45 +00:00 .
General view outside the stadium before the match .
REUTERS /
Phil Noble MANCHESTER , England ( Reuters ) - England ’s Premier League and Football League said on Friday they faced “ difficult decisions ” about the financial fall - out of the coronavirus but would not re - start until it was safe to do so .
The leagues have set April 30 as a date for a possible return to action but that appears to be optimistic given the country is under restrictions which stop people leaving their homes for non - essential reasons .
The English leagues have previously said it was their goal to try to complete the current season , when play resumes , but such an approach carries financial problems for lower division clubs who rely on match - day revenue for their cash - flow .
After a meeting with the PFA players ’ union on Friday , the leagues issued a joint statement acknowledging those problems .
“ The Premier League , EFL and PFA agreed that difficult decisions will have to be taken in order to mitigate the economic impact of the current suspension of professional football in England and agreed to work together to arrive at shared solutions , ” they said .
“ The leagues will not recommence until April 30 at the earliest .
They will only do so when it is safe and conditions allow , ” the statement added , noting that meetings with various involved parties would continue next week .
Britain has recorded more than 14,500 cases of the illness and the death toll jumped to 759 by 1700 GMT on Thursday , up by nearly a third in 24 hours .
This is the seventh highest official death toll in the world after Italy , Spain , China , Iran , the United States and France .
Reporting by Simon Evans ;
Editing by Ken Ferris

Canada to block people with COVID-19 symptoms from domestic flights, trains .
2020-04-04 13:46:42 +00:00 .
WINNIPEG , Manitoba ( Reuters ) - Canada will not allow anyone displaying symptoms of the COVID-19 respiratory illness to board domestic flights or inter - city passenger trains , Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Saturday , the latest travel restriction aimed at curbing the coronavirus outbreak .
A man walks alone as efforts continue to help slow the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Ottawa , Ontario , Canada March 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Blair
Gable Trudeau ’s government has long urged Canadians feeling ill to stay at home , but he told reporters at his daily press conference outside his residence that Transport Canada had now formalized travel rules as COVID-19 cases steadily rise .
Trudeau had been in self - isolation after his wife tested positive for the virus .
In a statement on Saturday , Sophie Gregoire Trudeau said she had “ received the all clear from my physician and Ottawa Public Health . ”
Canada ’s domestic travel restrictions will take effect on Monday at noon EDT .
Asked how screening would be different , Trudeau said the government was giving new tools to airlines and railways .
Transport Canada later said airline and rail company staff would ask health questions of passengers and look for visible symptoms .
Even enhanced screening offers “ no guarantee ” that sick people will not board , as they can hide symptoms , Howard Njoo , Canada ’s deputy chief public health officer , said in a separate press conference .
Canada has confirmed 5,153 cases of coronavirus , and 55 deaths , health officials said .
While case numbers are climbing , the rate of growth in British Columbia , the Pacific Coast province where community transmission was first reported , seems to be slowing , Chief Public Health Officer Theresa Tam said .
“ There are signs of hope , ” she told reporters in Ottawa .
In the province of Quebec , however , the number of cases jumped by 24 % in the past day to nearly 2,500 , more than double any other province .
Four additional deaths raised Quebec ’s death toll to 22 .
New police checkpoints were set to begin restricting non - essential traffic to eight Quebec regions on Saturday , Quebec Deputy Premier Genevieve Guilbault .
Ontario banned public events and gatherings of more than five people on Saturday .
Air Canada ( AC.TO ) , the country ’s biggest airline , said it would operate a special flight returning Canadians from Algeria on Tuesday , with additional flights scheduled from Peru and Ecuador .
China ’s embassy in Ottawa tweeted that the Bank of China had on Friday donated medical supplies to Canada , including thousands of masks , goggles and gloves .
Trudeau has faced criticism at home for sending a shipment of protective equipment to China in February , before COVID-19 cases spiked in Canada .
Reporting by Rod Nickel in Winnipeg , Manitoba ; Additional reporting by Allison Lampert in Montreal ; Editing by Steve Orlofsky , Paul Simao
Simon Cameron - Moore

Texas would curb oil output under broader deal by Trump: regulator .
2020-04-04 01:23:10 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Texas would agree to oil production curbs if U.S. President Donald Trump reached an agreement with international producers on cutbacks , a state energy regulator said on Friday in remarks that drew push back from fellow commissioners .
FILE PHOTO :
A pump jack operates in front of a drilling rig at sunset in an oil field in Midland , Texas U.S.
August 22 , 2018 .
Picture taken August 22 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Nick Oxford / File Photo Ryan Sitton , one of three members of the Texas Railroad Commission , which regulates oil and gas production in the state , said in an interview on CNBC that any production cuts would be temporary .
There is no need for a long - term deal , he said .
However , the state ’s other commissioners , Christi Craddick and Wayne Christian , took to Twitter to say that they had not yet made up their minds on the matter and would wait until an April 14 hearing to decide on any cuts .
“ One commissioner does not speak ” for the commission , Craddick tweeted , adding that “ Texas operators will be heard . ”
Christian seconded her opinion , tweeting , “ If a release or tweet comes from an individual commish , it does not signal consensus from the agency . ”
Any agreement to curb output would require support from two of the three commissioners .
Oil prices plunged to 18 - year lows last month as the coronavirus pandemic crushed demand and Saudi Arabia and Russia began a price war .
Trump met with U.S. oil executives on Friday after saying he had brokered a deal with the Saudis and Russians to reduce their production .
Benchmark U.S. crude futures were up 12 % to settle at 28.34 a barrel on Friday on hopes supply cuts would be agreed upon at an emergency meeting on Monday of OPEC and allies .
In parts of Texas , oil has been trading for under $ 10 a barrel .
“ If U.S. cutting would help get that deal done , then yes , I think Texas would be supportive of that , ” Sitton said on CNBC .
Some proposals , such as limiting natural gas flaring , would not work because it could disproportionately hurt some operators , he said .
Regulators in Oklahoma this week also were urged by oil and gas producers to consider mandated production cuts .
Unlike in Texas , where large shale producers Parsley Energy and Pioneer Natural Resources are leading the call for cutbacks , a group of smaller oil companies asked the Oklahoma Corporation Commission this week to consider cuts .
In Oklahoma , any output curbs would require a court to rule on the issue before it could be brought to the commissioners .
Reporting by Liz Hampton ; Editing by Chris Reese , Grant McCool and Daniel
Wallis

GM reduces loan refinancing target, may pay up for new debt .
2020-04-04 00:08:17 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( LPC ) - General Motors Co ( GM ) will seek to extend maturities on US$ 6bn in revolving loans rather than refinance a US$ 16.5bn credit facility following discussions with its bank group during an unprecedented health crisis in the US .
FILE PHOTO :
The GM logo is seen at the General Motors Assembly Plant in Ramos Arizpe , state of Coahuila , Mexico October 7 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Daniel Becerril
The company originally went out to its JP Morgan and Citigroup - led bank group in early March requesting to push maturities on the US$ 16.5bn in revolving credit facilities as part of its regular - way liability management operations .
The transaction was meant to roll over maturities , but leave pricing unchanged , several sources familiar with the discussions said .
But GM ’s decision to refinance came at a time when the company is facing a longer than expected shutdown of its plants and considerable revenue losses amid a crisis of extraordinary magnitude that has created a playing field much different from when it last underwent refinancing discussions in 2019 .
Complicating negotiations further , the company decided to draw down US$ 16bn on its revolver on March 27 while the refinancing talks with its bank group were taking place .
“ To shore up liquidity and strengthen its financial position due to global market uncertainty from the coronavirus pandemic , ” the company said on March 24 about its plans to draw down the facility .
The originally proposed refinancing included a US$ 2bn 364 - day loan and a US$ 4bn three - year loan .
It also included a US$ 10.5bn , five - year facility , said several sources familiar with the original refinancing discussions .
The new plan is expected to only address the short - term maturities , including the US$ 2bn one - year loan , and the US$ 4bn three - year loan , the sources said .
The one - year loan is looking to pay 25bp undrawn , while the three - year loan may pay 40bp undrawn .
When fully drawn , the loans could pay 175bp over Libor , the sources familiar with the transaction said .
An option to convert the one - year revolving credit into a term loan after one year is also expected to be removed , the sources said .
GM ’s 364 - day loan currently pays 12.5bp undrawn , the three - year pays 15bp undrawn .
The drawn margin on the two facilities is 125bp over Libor .
The new refinancing plan will leave in place the US$ 10.5bn credit facility .
Pricing on the five - year is expected to stay unchanged at 125bp over Libor and 17.5bp undrawn .
Commitments are due April 10 .
GM also has a US$ 3bn revolving credit it entered into in January 2019 when it refinanced the other three tranches .
The new loan increased the company ’s borrowing capacity to US$ 19.5bn .
A Citigroup spokesperson declined to comment .
Spokespeople for GM and JP Morgan did not immediately return requests for comment .
Reporting by Michelle Sierra ;
Editing by Kristen Haunss

Big banks start accepting small business aid requests .
2020-04-03 21:08:48 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Bank of America Corp ( BAC.N ) and JPMorgan Chase
Co ( JPM.N ) are now accepting applications for federally backed small - business loans , a sign that big U.S. banks have warmed up to the relief program after initially resisting participation .
FILE PHOTO :
A Bank of America logo is pictured in the Manhattan borough of New York City , New York , U.S. , January 30 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Carlo Allegri Bank of America was the first major bank to announce its involvement in the $ 349 billion Payroll Protection Program on Friday , saying it had processed tens of thousands of loans within just a few hours .
JPMorgan followed around noon , saying customers could apply through its website .
Earlier in the day , it had warned small business customers that it could not accept applications until receiving guidance from the U.S. Treasury Department .
Wells Fargo Co ( WFC.N ) and Citigroup Inc ( C.N ) did not have their online portals running by Friday afternoon .
While smaller banks were already participating - helping the Treasury Department originate nearly $ 900 million worth of loans soon after its program kicked off - those four lenders touch a huge portion of U.S. households , and can get money out the door much more quickly to customers who already have accounts with them .
But they were reluctant to participate in the program because initial guidelines from the Treasury Department suggested lenders would be responsible for vetting applicants - and therefore might be on the hook later for fraud or other misdeeds that occur .
The industry threatened to boycott the program unless the government addressed those concerns , Reuters reported here on Wednesday .
Small businesses employ about half of the workers in the U.S. private sector .
They have been hit hard during the outbreak of the new coronavirus , as cities and states have shut down non - essential businesses , creating painful job losses and a sharp decline in spending .
Congress approved a $ 2 trillion stimulus package last Friday that included the small - business program , with Trump administration officials promising to get money out to people within days of its launch .
But banks , which are handling aid requests , lacked guidance on how the program should work until a few days ago .
In the meantime , confused customers flooded their phone lines trying to apply .
Critics have attacked big banks for the industry ’s lack of enthusiasm about the program , noting that the industry has received its own assistance for weeks through the Federal Reserve ’s multitrillion - dollar support for markets during the coronavirus rout .
U.S. Senator Marcio Rubio , the key sponsor of the small - business initiative in Congress , lashed out at Bank of America on Friday despite its recent participation .
He cited an unnamed small business that was denied a loan because it had deposits but not an existing credit line with the bank .
Bank of America Chief Executive Brian Moynihan had said earlier in the day that his company was prioritizing existing borrowers , and that others should try their own banks first .
Rubio called that idea “ a ridiculous requirement that is n’t anywhere in the law . ”
Reporting by Imani Moise and Elizabeth Dilts - Marshall ; Writing by Lauren Tara LaCapra ;
Editing by Steve Orlofsky , David Gregorio and Jonathan Oatis

Disney shuffles movie schedule due to virus, 'Mulan' set for July .
2020-04-03 20:18:45 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
Cast members Ron Yuan , Yifei Liu , Jason Scott Lee and Yoson An pose with director Niki Caro , at the European premiere for the film " Mulan " in London , Britain March 12 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Henry Nicholls / File Photo LOS ANGELES ( Reuters ) - Walt Disney Co will release the live - action epic “ Mulan ” in movie theaters in July and Marvel ’s “ Black Widow ” in November , the company said on Friday as it reshuffled a schedule disrupted by the global coronavirus outbreak .
Among other changes , Disney postponed the release of a new “ Indiana Jones ” movie by one year to July 2022 , the company said in a statement .
Movie theaters around the world have been closed and film production has been put on hold to help prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus .
Hollywood studios are optimistic that theaters will be back in business by late July .
Disney set the debut of “ Mulan , ” which was supposed to reach theaters last month , for July 24 .
ViacomCBS Inc ’s Paramount Pictures moved a new animated “ SpongeBob ” movie to July 31 , and ATT Inc ’s
Warner Bros said it planned to release “ Wonder Woman 1984 ” on Aug. 14 .
“ Black Widow , ” starring Scarlett Johansson , had been scheduled to kick off the summer blockbuster season , traditionally Hollywood ’s most lucrative period at theaters , on May 1 .
It will now debut Nov. 6 , a date that had been reserved for Marvel ’s “ The Eternals . ”
Disney moved “ Eternals ” to Feb. 12 , 2021 , and postponed several other Marvel movies by a few months .
“ Shang - Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings ” was rescheduled for May 21 , 2021 , followed by “ Doctor Strange and the Multiverse of Madness ” on Nov. 5 , 2021 , and “ Thor : Love and Thunder ” on Feb. 18 , 2022 .
The debut of “ Jungle Cruise , ” a live - action adventure starring Dwayne Johnson and Emily Blunt , ” was delayed from this summer to July 30 , 2021 .
Disney also said it would scrap a planned theatrical release of family film “ Artemis Fowl ” and instead distribute it on the Disney+ streaming service at an unspecified date .
Reporting by Lisa Richwine ;
Editing by Leslie Adler and Marguerita Choy

ISL pro series to fund swimmers through to Tokyo Olympics .
2020-04-03 19:54:33 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) -
The professional International Swimming League ( ISL ) will fund its contracted athletes with monthly payments from September through to next year ’s rescheduled Tokyo Olympics , the series announced on Friday .
FILE PHOTO :
The giant Olympic rings are seen in the dusk at the waterfront area at Odaiba Marine Park in Tokyo , Japan , March 22 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Issei Kato / File Photo
It also plans to get all its 320 swimmers together for a five - week special event of training and competition , possibly filmed behind closed doors and with Australia the likely location , from Oct. 14 - Nov. 17 subject to the COVID-19 pandemic .
Hungary ’s 2016 triple Olympic gold medallist Katinka Hosszu told Reuters the ‘ Solidarity Program ’ would provide peace of mind at a time of uncertainty , with some countries in lockdown as they battle the new coronavirus .
“ For us athletes , it ’s really important to get over this period of time and everyone will be able to prepare for next summer , ” she said .
“ They have some security as well as some racing and training camps to look forward to . ”
The Tokyo Games , originally scheduled to start in July this year , have been postponed to July 23 - Aug. 8 , 2021 due to the pandemic .
The ISL launched last year as a fast - paced competition with 10 teams from Europe and North America featuring an array of world and Olympic champions and bankrolled by Ukrainian businessman Konstantin Grigorishin .
Olympic and world champion Caeleb Dressel , who competed in the inaugural ISL season , liked the idea of doing it again but stopped short of committing to a return , due in part to uncertainty with his existing sponsorships .
“ I do n’t know that far in advance what my schedule is going to be like ... or how the companies I am involved with at the moment what they are going to need from me within those months , ” Dressel told Reuters .
“ I mean , I would love to compete in ISL , it was great last year , but I ca n’t say 100 % I am doing this because there are just so many uncertainties right now for everybody . ”
Grigorishin told Reuters the contracted swimmers would each get a guaranteed $ 1,500 a month from Sept. 1 to July 1 with $ 11 million set aside to cover wages , bonuses , ambassador payments and prize money in a condensed season .
The total cost of paying for everything could amount to $ 20 million , although that could be reduced by television deals and sponsorship and depends on the planned five - week ‘ radical swimming event ’ going ahead .
“ During this five weeks we will organise 10 matches , like prelims , ” said Grigorishin .
“ And maybe one month later we organise finals , just one match for four teams .
This is our ideal scenario .
“ But it ’s hard to say .
It ’s not easy to travel now and maybe there will be a lot of restrictions .
So we have to find some place for the swimmers to collect them together .
“ I think there will still be some restrictions on big public events to the end of the year so for that reason maybe we have to organise this competition in TV show format without spectators . ”
He said Australia , Budapest , Japan or Florida were options with Australia the frontrunner : “ We asked swimmers and coaches about their preferences and the majority liked Australia . ”
The pandemic has put the sporting calendar on hold , with many athletes forced to train at home .
The European aquatics championships that were scheduled for Budapest in May have been postponed to August , subject to review .
Reporting by Alan Baldwin ; Additional reporting by Tim Hart ;
Editing by Christian Radnedge and Toby Davis

Juggling coronavirus and economy, Denmark readies to ease lockdown .
2020-04-03 16:11:24 +00:00 .
* Denmark would be first non - Asian country to relax curbs
* Number of cases stabilising * Country seeks to balance economy and public safety
* Authorities appear confident of stopping second outbreak *
Many question whether that stance is well - founded
By Stine Jacobsen and Nikolaj Skydsgaard COPENHAGEN , April 3 ( Reuters ) - Denmark is expected this weekend to reveal plans to relax its coronavirus lockdown , becoming the first country outside Asia to do so , reasoning that the risks of a deep recession may now be more dangerous for Danish society than a second outbreak .
The Nordic country was one of the first in Europe to shut down , and with the number of coronavirus cases stabilizing it is now facing tough decisions on reopening that many other governments around the world have lying ahead of them .
The Danish government on March 11 ordered the closure of schools , day cares , restaurants , cafes and gyms , and shut all borders to most foreigners .
On Monday , the government said it would start gradually lifting its lockdown after Easter if the numbers of cases and deaths remained stable , apparently confident it can guard its population against a second outbreak .
Frederiksen said she hoped to be able to present a plan for the first phase of a reopening by the end of this week after consultation with the other parties in government .
But many Danes question whether the government ’s confidence is well - founded .
Qasim Khan , co - owner and head chef at a small Latin American restaurant in central Copenhagen , applauds the government ’s quick decision to shut down the country , but worries that a reopening after Easter would be too early and could actually delay a return to normal .
“ You risk that our three weeks of very tough quarantine ends being worth nothing ...
I do n’t see a reason for opening up and then risk having to shut down again , ” he told Reuters .
In considering whether to ease the restrictions , the government is trying to balance the need to keep its population safe and the economic risks of a deep recession .
“ POLITICAL CHOICE ”
“ The situation we are in is far more complicated than appreciating human life , ” the country ’s prime minister Mette Frederiksen said on Monday .
“ We can not open a textbook - neither on healthcare nor economy - and find the right answer , ” she said , adding : “ The math is too simple . ”
Denmark , which has imposed less strict limits on daily life than in Italy or France , had reported 139 coronavirus - related deaths as of Friday , with the number of patients hospitalized falling this week .
“ What we ’ve done so far is very sensible , but I would have liked to see a development over a longer period before I dared to say that the curve is broken , ” said Hans Jorn Kolmos , professor in clinical microbiology at the University of Southern Denmark .
Frederiksen acknowledged on Monday that “ the strategy we follow is a political choice . ”
Restaurant owner Khan , with the help of his pregnant girlfriend and two remaining staff , is still keeping his kitchen open for take - away orders .
“ Is it really worth risking getting ill versus shutting down the place ?
That has been the toughest decision , ” Khan said .
Additional reporting by Andreas Mortensen ;
writing by Jacob Gronholt - Pedersen , Editing by William Maclean

Growing New York gold stockpile eases fear of shortages .
2020-04-03 15:51:17 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) -
The amount of gold stored in vaults in New York registered by CME Group ’s Comex exchange has risen by nearly 2 million ounces , CME data showed , proving ample to settle monthly contract obligations and easing concerns of shortages that sent prices skyrocketing .
FILE PHOTO :
An employee places gold bars in the Kazakhstan National Bank vault in Almaty , Kazakhstan , September 30 , 2016 .
REUTERS /
Mariya Gordeyeva
Traders worried it would be impossible to fly gold from London to deliver against Comex contracts after coronavirus lockdown measures grounded planes and shut several precious metals refineries last month .
On March 23 , just before gold traded in New York jumped as much as $ 70 , or 4 % above London spot prices , contracts representing almost 20 million ounces for delivery in April were open on Comex , with less than 9 million ounces in store .
But the price premium triggered a rush to transfer gold to New York .
Total stocks in Comex - registered vaults increased by 1.75 million ounces , or 54 tonnes , from March 26 to a four - year high of 10.5 million ounces , while the proportion put on warrant , or made available for delivery , doubled to around 40 % .
Graphic : Comex gold stocks , here Graphic : Comex gold warrants , here
Meanwhile , most investors rolled their positions to contracts with future delivery dates , reducing the amount of gold needed for settlement .
24,489 contracts equivalent to 2.4 million ounces for April delivery have been redeemed for metal , the highest monthly total since at least 2011 , CME data show .
Investors typically use Comex to gain exposure to gold prices and rarely ask to take metal , which costs money to store .
For that reason , far less gold is stored in New York than trades there .
If gold is needed , it can be quickly flown on passenger planes from London via Swiss refiners that melt and reshape it to meet Comex specifications .
The next active monthly future on Comex is for June delivery , with 359,803 contracts active representing 36 million ounces .
Its price is around $ 25 above London spot gold , suggesting that worries remain .
“ There ’s still some logistical concerns in the market about not having the right bars in the right place , ” said Saxo Bank analyst Ole Hansen .
Graphic : New York - London gold spread , here
But he said the price gap would shrink as refineries reopened and the CME launched a new gold contract that can be settled using London standard 400 - ounce bars as well the 100 ounce bars it currently takes .
The London Bullion Market Association , which oversees London trading , said last week it was working with refiners , shippers and banks to move metal , including by cargo and charter planes .
Reporting by Peter Hobson ; Editing by Veronica Brown and
Elaine Hardcastle

Decision on July internationals to be made this month .
2020-04-03 15:09:51 +00:00 .
CAPE TOWN ( Reuters ) -
The fate of planned mid - year rugby union internationals , including a homecoming game for World Cup winners South Africa , will be decided this month , officials in several countries said on Thursday , but the indications are they will be called off .
South Africa 's Siya Kolisi celebrates with the Webb Ellis trophy after winning the Rugby Union World Cup Final at International Stadium Yokohama in Yokohama , Japan November 2 , 2019 REUTERS /
Matthew Childs / File Photo Discussions on scheduled tours by France , Ireland , Italy , Scotland and Wales to the southern hemisphere in July , and England ’s trip to Japan at the same time , were held on Wednesday when World Rugby ’s executive committee met by video conference .
But any decision on the fate of the tours was left to later in April , several sources told Reuters .
World Rugby , the sport ’s governing body , has not issued any statement on the meeting , but its chief executive Brett Gosper had earlier this week said the tours were unlikely to go ahead .
“ The problem is that no union wants to make the decision to cancel its tour , not least because there are , among other things , insurance contract implications , ” he told the French daily L’Equipe .
“ Participants are waiting for government decisions and directives .
That said , all unions , from the north as well as from the south , know that it is unlikely that these tours will take place . ”
The Springboks are due to play Scotland in Cape Town on July 4 in their first game since November ’s World Cup victory , followed by another test against the Scots one week later and then a fixture with Georgia .
England and Wales are scheduled to tour Japan , with Wales then going on to face two tests in New Zealand .
Scotland are due to travel to New Zealand after their two tests in South Africa , while Ireland had two internationals in Australia and Italy were to visit Argentina after their hosts had played France in two July tests .
Officials said the executive committee had taken note of the financial implications for the host unions and raised possible alternative plans but held off on any firm decisions .
Bernard Laporte , the French Rugby Federation president who sits on the executive , had previously suggested tours scheduled for July could be moved to November .
But this is unlikely given the financial boost that Australia , New Zealand and South Africa also derive from their end of year visits to the northern hemisphere , officials added .
South Africa have already lined up four tests in Europe in November while the All Blacks will face England at Twickenham on Nov. 7 in a match that is usually a lucrative sell - out .
Australia , who have laid off staff and cut pay as they warn of an impending financial crisis brought on by the effects of the coronavirus shutdown , are to scheduled to play Ireland , France , Italy and England in November .
[ nL4N2BP2VU ]

Exclusive: Airline crisis forces Airbus to consider A320 output cuts .
2020-04-03 14:24:27 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) - Airbus is studying a sharp cut in output of its top - selling A320 plane series amid an industry - wide slowdown triggered by the coronavirus crisis , sources familiar with the matter said .
FILE PHOTO :
General view in a new A320 production line at the Airbus plant in Hamburg , Germany , June 14 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Fabian Bimmer / File Photo Europe ’s leading planemaker is examining scenarios including cutting its monthly output of 60 A320 - family jets by as much as half for around three to six months as airlines scramble to save cash , two of the sources told Reuters .
Airbus ( AIR.PA ) has asked A320 parts suppliers to slow their deliveries to its factories by 40 % to a rate compatible with production of 36 jets a month in the near term , one source said .
The coronavirus crisis has blindsided airlines and planemakers , prompting bailouts and drastic revisions .
Airbus additionally faces shortages in its own supply chain as it struggles to bring production back up to previous levels after pausing activity in several factories .
Airbus , which last month suspended its near - term 2020 delivery guidance , entered the coronavirus crisis with plans to increase A320 - family production to 63 a month in 2021 and to add a further one to two planes per month in both 2022 and 2023 .
Those plans have been shelved , the sources said .
Airbus said it was “ closely monitoring the evolving COVID-19 situation worldwide and is in constant dialogue with ... customers , suppliers and institutional partners . ”
The planemaker added it was “ assessing the implications of the pandemic on its operations and the potential mitigation measures that could be implemented . ”
HALF SPEED
A final decision is expected by the company ’s shareholder meeting in mid - April and depends on several unknowns , including how long the air travel crisis will last .
Airbus is expected to try to avoid mandatory lay - offs and make use of short - time working schemes in France and Germany .
Reuters reported on Thursday that Airbus and rival Boeing ( BA.N ) were also studying sharp cuts in production of larger , wide - body jets such as the Airbus A350 or Boeing 777 .
Suppliers for the A350 are being ordered to run for now at about half - speed , equivalent to 5 aircraft a month compared with about 9.5 before the crisis , the sources said .
The A330 family , which recently slowed to 3.5 jets a month , could dip to two .
The rate at which suppliers are instructed to feed assembly lines does not always match official production rates in order to avoid disruptive whiplash effects in the supply chain .
Airbus and Boeing have a buffer of thousands of aircraft orders and have until now been able to find new homes for the most in - demand passenger jets like the A320 and 737 , although Boeing is also wrestling with the grounding of its 737 MAX .
FILE PHOTO :
The logo of Airbus is pictured at the aircraft builder 's headquarters of Airbus in Colomiers near Toulouse , France , November 15 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Regis Duvignau
But the depth of the crisis and a worldwide meltdown in travel demand have raised questions over whether some of the airlines that placed large orders will survive , analysts say .
Airbus and Boeing have indicated they will adjust supply to demand rather than build aircraft that can not be delivered .
Cuts in production of wide - body , long - haul jets could be deeper and last longer as international travel restrictions compound an existing problem of surplus capacity .
Reporting by Tim Hepher ; Editing by Jason Neely and
Alexander Smith

Exclusive: Indian rice exports suspended on supply chain disruption - industry .
2020-04-03 14:19:42 +00:00 .
MUMBAI / NEW DELHI ( Reuters ) -
Indian rice traders have stopped signing new export contracts amid the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus , as labour shortages and logistics disruptions have hampered the delivery of even existing contracts , industry officials said .
FILE PHOTO :
A worker spreads rice for drying at a rice mill on the outskirts of Kolkata , India , January 31 , 2019 .
Picture taken January 31 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Rupak De Chowdhuri / File Photo
The halt in exports from the world ’s biggest exporter is allowing rival countries such as Thailand to raise shipments in the short term and lift global prices , forcing millions of poor consumers in Africa to pay higher prices .
“ Shipments have stalled as transport has become very difficult because of the lockdown .
Drivers are not coming and labour is not available at mills and ports , ” said B.V. Krishna Rao , president of the Rice Exporters Association ( REA ) .
Indian traders have stopped offering quotes to overseas buyers as they are not sure when they would be able to ship their cargoes , four top exporters told Reuters .
India ’s export volumes have fallen by four to five times , said Prem Garg , chairman of the Lal Mahal Group , which exports rice to more than 44 countries .
India will gradually pull out of a three - week lockdown in phases , Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said .
About 400,000 tonnes of non - basmati rice and 100,000 tonnes of basmati rice , meant for March - April delivery , are either stuck at ports or in the pipeline due to the lockdown , exporters said .
New Delhi mainly exports non - basmati rice to Bangladesh , Nepal , Benin and Senegal , and premium basmati rice to Iran , Saudi Arabia and Iraq .
As Cambodia , Vietnam and Myanmar curbed their rice exports , demand for Indian rice surged , but traders are not signing new contracts , said Nitin Gupta , vice president of trader Olam India ’s rice business .
Thailand , the only key exporter to offer rice currently , has seen its export prices soared to their highest in seven years this week .
Before the lockdown , India was offering 5 % broken parboiled variety at around $ 365 per tonne free - on - board basis .
Thailand is now been offering the same grade at around $ 540 per tonne .
“ After the lockdown , there will be a huge demand for Indian rice , as India is in a sweet spot in terms of offering competitive prices , ” said Olam ’s Gupta .
Since India has vast surplus stocks , it could start cashing in on demand once labour shortages ease , said REA ’s Rao .
India ’s rice exports in 2019 fell 18.1 % from a year earlier to 9.87 million tonnes , the lowest in eight years , as demand moderated from key Asian and African buyers .
India is likely to produce 117.47 million tonnes of rice in 2019/20 against an annual consumption of about 100 million tonnes , with state inventories at 31 million tonnes .
If the lockdown is extended , or the pandemic spreads among key buying nations , denting demand , India ’s rice industry could suffer major losses , said large exporter Vijay Sethia .
Reporting by Rajendra Jadhav and Mayank Bhardwaj ; Editing by Euan Rocha and
David Evans

Two young American doctors spend honeymoon fighting coronavirus .
2020-04-03 13:00:03 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
She ’d picked her dress , they ’d booked their honeymoon and the wedding was set for the end of March .
Then , the coronavirus pandemic hit .
Doctors Kashif Chaudhry and Naila Shereen wear face masks after their wedding in New Windsor , New York , U.S. , March 21 , 2020 amid an outbreak of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) .
Picture taken March 21 , 2020 .
Kashif Chaudhry and Naila Shereen / Handout via REUTERS
So the two young American doctors , Kashif Chaudhry and Naila Shereen , whose whirlwind courtship spun them between New York City and Cedar Rapids , Iowa , cancelled their big plans .
Two weeks ago , they persuaded the imam at a mosque in Hawthorne , New Jersey , to open up for a quick nikkah marriage contract ceremony .
The couple married the following day on Saturday and celebrated with her family at her parents ’ house in New Windsor , New York .
After the ceremony , Shereen dropped her new husband at the airport 12 hours later .
“ We said our goodbyes - we were a bit teary and sad , ” he said .
“ I gave her a red rose . ”
Shereen was back at work by Monday .
As an internal medicine chief resident overseeing teams of residents , she rotates through different hospitals in New York , the epicenter of America ’s coronavirus outbreak .
So far the disease has infected more than one million people and killed over 50,000 worldwide .
Shereen is working long days but says doctors are trying to keep each others ’ spirits up by swapping snacks and trading funny videos .
“ We all know New York is bad
but we know the worst is yet to come , ” she said .
“ I never thought I ’d live through a pandemic . ”
Chaudhry , a 37 - year - old cardiac electrophysiologist , is seeing patients via videoconferencing where he works at Mercy Medical Center in Cedar Rapids , Iowa .
They ’ve cancelled all elective operations to try to conserve their protective equipment when the coronavirus tsunami hits .
But while his head is in Iowa , his heart is in New York .
“ I worry a lot about her , ” he said .
“ But I ’m really proud of her . ”
The two doctors chat several times a day via Facetime .
When asked about each other , Shereen said Chaudhry is “ super funny ” while he said he loves her “ witty , sarcastic ” sense of humour .
Both say their faith not just inspires but requires them to help - they are Ahmadi , a Muslim sect that believes in Mirza Ghulam Ahmed as the second coming of the Messiah , an idea rejected by other Muslims .
Chaudhry , whose aid worker father also inspires him , already worked as a volunteer implanting pacemakers for free in Bolivia .
He and Shereen , who had herself volunteered in Guatemala , started dating in December .
They met for a coffee that turned into dinner , which they ate in a mall because he had forgotten his jacket .
“ When we met up , we talked and talked .
I just knew right away , ” he said .
“ We had to give up our big wedding
but it ’s much more important I got to marry the woman I love . ”

East Africa locust swarms gather as coronavirus curbs delay pesticides .
2020-04-03 10:56:58 +00:00 .
NAIROBI ( Reuters ) - Coronavirus - linked flight restrictions are hampering efforts to wipe out locust swarms on the verge of devastating crops in eastern Africa , the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) said .
FILE PHOTO :
A man attempts to fend - off a swarm of desert locusts at a ranch near the town of Nanyuki in Laikipia county , Kenya , February 21 , 2020 .
Picture taken February 21 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Baz Ratner / File Photo
The curbs have delayed deliveries of pesticides and , at the current rate of spraying , stocks in Kenya will run out within four days , Cyril Ferrand , FAO ’s head of resilience for Eastern Africa , told Reuters on Thursday .
“ If we fail in the current ( regional ) control operations , because of lack of pesticides , then we could see 4 million more people struggle to feed their families , ” Ferrand said .
Locust numbers exploded late last year , encouraged by unusual weather patterns amplified by climate change , and swarms disbursed eastwards from Yemen , with Kenya , Somalia and Ethiopia the hardest hit countries .
The first invasion that terrorized farmers in a region where 20 million people struggle for food has given birth to a second wave of insects just as new - season crops are being planted .
“ They are very active , very voracious , and very mobile , ” Ferrand said .
“ ... If we do n’t have pesticides , our planes can not fly and people can not spray and if we are not able to control these swarms , we will have big damage to crops . ”
In Kenya , the FAO was now looking to secure pesticides from local sources , Ferrand said , should the delays continue .
The spreading of the new coronavirus has forced governments to close their borders , reducing cargo flights and disrupting global supply chains , including the production of pesticides in Europe and Asia .
An order of pesticides due to arrive in Somalia by the end of last month has been delayed , though Ethiopia managed to secure enough of the chemicals before cargo flights were cut back .
Meanwhile , a lockdown imposed in South Africa last week has made it difficult to secure the helicopters that are crucial for locust surveillance .
“ We need to have mobility that is equivalent to the desert locusts , that ’s what helicopters give us , ” Ferrand said .
The FAO has secured about $ 111 million of funding towards fighting the swarms .
But that is $ 40 million less than the organization sought and contributions have dropped off since mid - March , Ferrand said .
Reporting by Omar Mohammed ;
editing by Katharine Houreld and John Stonestreet

UK facing Depression-style hit as firms slump in March .
2020-04-03 10:39:41 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Britain ’s economy looks set for a slump that in the short term could be deeper than during the depression of the 1930s , as a survey showed the coronavirus crisis caused a record downturn among services and manufacturing firms in March .
FILE PHOTO :
The sun rises behind The Shard and the financial district as a cyclist rides through Richmond Park in London , Britain , May 13 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Hannah McKay/
The composite Purchasing Managers ’ Index covering the two sectors fell to 36.0 from 53.0 in February and was weaker than a preliminary ‘ flash ’ reading of 37.1 , data firm IHS Markit and the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply said .
The survey data were collected between March 12 and March 27 , covering the period after Prime Minister Boris Johnson ordered the closure of bars , restaurants , gyms and other services businesses to slow the coronavirus outbreak on March 20 .
Britain ’s dominant services industry suffered its sharpest fall by far since the survey began in 1996 .
Its index sank to 34.5 from February ’s 53.2 , and was also weaker than the March flash reading of 35.7 .
Sterling weakened almost half a cent against the dollar to its lowest since March 31 after the news , which was only a bit less bleak than the equivalent euro zone survey .
Andrew Wishart , an economist at Capital Economics , said the PMIs were probably underestimating the hit .
“ We are forecasting a 15 % fall in GDP in Q2 , a larger fall in output than in the financial crisis or the Great Depression , ” he said .
“ Our base case is that the recession wo n’t be as protracted as either of those episodes .
But evidence that unemployment is shooting up despite the government response raises the risk that the recovery takes longer than we expect . ”
Tim Moore , economics director at IHS Markit , said job losses had been mitigated by firms ’ use of a government scheme to temporarily put staff on leave , rather than fire them .
Britain ’s government has said it will pay 80 % of the wages of workers who are furloughed by companies .
“ However , employment levels across the service sector still dropped at the fastest pace for more than a decade , reflecting some forced redundancies and the non - replacement of departing staff amid widespread hiring freezes , ” Moore said .
British Airways ( ICAG.L ) said on Thursday it had struck a deal with its unions to suspend more than 30,000 cabin crew and ground staff .
Data on Wednesday showed around 950,000 people in the United Kingdom have applied for welfare benefits in the two weeks since Johnson shut down swathes of the economy .
The PMI survey showed the biggest drop in new work among services firms and the bleakest business expectations in more than 20 years of data collection .
Technology services were the only area to signal a rise in business activity - possibly reflecting the stay - at - home order for many people - but new workloads for tech firms dropped more quickly than at any time since 2011 .
A final PMI for Britain ’s manufacturing sector , published on Wednesday , showed factory output shrank at the fastest pace since the euro zone debt crisis in March .
Writing by William Schomberg ;
Editing by Hugh Lawson and Toby Chopra

H&M sees second-quarter loss, plans cost cuts as pandemic slams sales in March .
2020-04-03 10:19:35 +00:00 .
STOCKHOLM ( Reuters ) - Sweden ’s HM ( HMb . ST ) , the world ’s second - biggest clothing retailer , said on Friday it expected a loss in the second quarter after reporting a 46 % plunge in March sales as the coronavirus pandemic took a toll on the retail sector .
FILE PHOTO :
The HM clothing store is seen in Times Square in Manhattan , New York , U.S. , November 15 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Mike Segar
The virus outbreak that began in China late last year and is spreading around the world has prompted governments to close businesses and order millions of people to stay at home to try to slow the contagion ..
It has forced HM to temporarily close most of its stores , flag big layoffs and scrap its annual dividend for the first time since its 1974 listing .
HM ’s biggest rival , Zara owner Inditex ( ITX.MC ) , has also announced big temporary layoffs , and booked a provision as the slump in demand reduced the value of its inventory .
“ We have never been through times as demanding as these , ” newly appointed HM Chief Executive Helena Helmersson told analysts and journalists on a call .
With an unprecedented fall in sales and a dismal second quarter already priced in , HM ’s shares were however up 4 % by 0910 GMT as the retailer said it would cut costs and planned to strengthen its liquidity buffer with new credit .
The shares plunged 40 % in the past month .
Analysts at Jefferies said it was sensible to expand credit facilities “ given narrower liquidity buffers relative to peers , as we entered an elongated period of demand weakness / absence ” .
Helmersson said the situation was becoming increasingly demanding with each day the group had to keep stores closed .
“ With the dramatic decline in the market we have to make many difficult decisions and take forceful action , ” she said in a statement .
JP Morgan analysts said HM ’s March sales were not worse than feared , and highlighted e - commerce growth , cost flexibility and a fast recovery in China as positives in the report .
“ While the backdrop is dire , for everyone and not just for HM , we think the snippets provided by HM are relatively positive versus expectations , ” they said in a research note .
OUT OTHER SIDE
HM said it expected to cut operating expenses excluding depreciation by around 20 - 25 % in the second quarter and lowered its investment plans for the year .
The retailer , which had more than 125,000 employees by late last year , is in talks to reduce working hours for tens of thousands of workers , and considering redundancies .
In results that still bore little mark of the virus outbreak , HM ’s fiscal first - quarter pretax profit more than doubled to 2.50 billion crowns ( $ 248 million ) from 1.04 billion a year - ago .
Six analysts polled between March 17 and March 26 had on average expected a rise to 1.47 billion crowns , according to Refinitiv data .
“ We think the debate on HM will be between investors looking at how ugly it can get short term and investors thinking about who could come out the other side relatively stronger , ” RBC analyst Richard Chamberlain said in a note .
“ HM should be one of those , albeit Inditex looks better placed for now given its flexible business model and stronger balance sheet , ” he said .
HM said stocks would temporarily be growing again , having shrunk for three quarters .
Reporting by Anna Ringstrom ; additional reporting by Johannes Hellstrom , editing by Niklas Pollard and Emelia
Sithole - Matarise

Sex workers stranded in Germany as coronavirus shuts brothels .
2020-04-03 08:58:04 +00:00 .
BERLIN ( Reuters ) -
Thousands of foreign prostitutes working in Germany have been made homeless after brothels closed due to the coronavirus outbreak and borders snapped shut , making it difficult for them to return home .
FILE PHOTO :
A room inside the closed Eros center " Taunusstrasse 26 " is seen at the red light district in Frankfurt , Germany , March 30 , 2020 , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues .
REUTERS /
Kai Pfaffenbach / File Photo Authorities in the country , where prostitution has been legal for almost two decades , shut brothels last month along with other non - essential businesses like restaurants and nightclubs to slow the spread of the virus .
“ The coronavirus has been a disaster for me , ” said a Polish prostitute in the western city of Bochum known to her clients as Nicole .
“ I have had no income since mid - March and no place to sleep , ” she added , declining to give her real name .
Before the lockdown , she paid her brothel 90 euros ( $ 97 ) a day for a room to meet clients and live in .
But since then she has been staying with the brothel manager .
Sex workers in Germany are classed as self - employed , pay tax and are in theory entitled to financial assistance from a fund set up by the government to help freelancers through the pandemic .
“ I am hoping the Job Centre will accept my tax returns so I can get unemployment benefits , ” said Nicole .
“ If this happens I will be able to move into an apartment . ”
But some prostitutes work illegally and charities supporting the industry say that many who , like Nicole , do pay tax are unaware of their rights .
A few are soliciting for clients on the streets to make ends meet until brothels reopen .
“ Demand for paid sex is still there despite the risk of catching the virus , ” said Heike Koettner , of the Madonna educational charity for prostitutes in Bochum .
“ Some women are taking this risk . ”
Susanne Bleier Wilp of the Association for Erotic and Sexual Services Providers lobby group in Berlin said that of the estimated 100,000 to 200,000 prostitutes in Germany about 80 % are foreign , mainly from Bulgaria , Romania , Poland , and Ukraine .
“ Most have managed to make it back home .
But others are homeless , ” said Bleier Wilp .
“ We ’re talking about 3 - 4 % who are the most vulnerable in the industry .
They came here with nothing hoping to earn some money .
Now they are staying with friends or living on the street .
A lucky few are staying in the brothels . ”
Bulgaria , Romania and Poland require returning citizens to quarantine for 14 days , a measure designed to slow the spread of the virus , which in Germany has infected almost 80,000 and killed more than 1,000 .
Additional reporting by Tsvetelia Tsolova in Sofia and Radu Marinas in Bucharest ;
editing by John Stonestreet

UPDATE 1-Peugeot proposes infection prevention plan to restart plants, unions disagree .
2020-04-03 07:29:24 +00:00 .
* PSA offers masks , handwashing breaks , space on shuttle bus * PSA chief Tavares vows not to jeopardise workers ’ health
*
Unions say too many still producing non - essential goods
* CGT ’s Martinez : no need for airplanes or lipstick now ( Adds CEO , union leaders comments , background )
By Gilles Guillaume PARIS , March 27 ( Reuters ) - French car maker PSA has presented a safety plan with a view to restarting European plants closed for fear of coronavirus infection , but its unions said it was to soon to for that .
The government has urged companies that have adequate safety measures in place to continue their activities if possible , though this has met with growing resistance from unions , with some in sectors such as weapons and defence manufacturing questioning whether their operations were essential .
PSA , which makes the Peugeot and Citroen brands , has suspended output in all its European plants until March 27 and has not given a target date for restarting production .
But it said pilot plants in Valenciennes and Douvrin , in northern France , could possibly restart from early April with volunteers .
“ We will absolutely not jeopardise our workers ’ health , so that the industrial restart that is necessary to safeguard the future of the company can be done in optimal conditions , ” PSA chief Carlos Tavares said in a statement on Friday .
PSA will take workers ’ body temperatures , provide face masks and ensure ample spacing at each workplace .
It will also keep all doors except fire doors open so as to avoid infection via door handles .
It will also disinfect tools and work surfaces every 60 minutes , workers will have to wait three hours before touching a component that has been handled by another worker and breaks will be lengthened by five minutes for handwashing .
It will also double the number of shuttle buses to ensure better spacing between passengers .
The car maker will apply these measures not only in its assembly plants but also at sales and administrative sites .
“ These health measures are quite robust , but the time has not yet come .
Restarting work would be premature as long as the peak of the epidemic is not behind us , ” said Sebastien Leroy , CFTC union member at the Valenciennes gearbox plant .
PSA aims to restart the Douvrin engines plant on April 3 and Valenciennes on March 30 , the Valenciennes site with reduced staffing of 200 people and output of just 70 gearboxes per day .
“ We do n’t get it .
France is preparing to extend confinement and at the same time PSA is organising de - confinement , ” CGT union member Jean - Pierre Mercier said .
France on Friday extended a national lockdown till April 15 .
CGT leader Philippe Martinez speaking on radio station RFI saluted those working to combat the health crisis but added that too many people were working to produce non - essential goods .
“ At the moment , we have no need to manufacture airplanes , ships or cars .
Or lipstick , for that matter , ” he said .
( Additional reporting by Marine Pennetier Writing by Geert De Clercq
Editing by Alex Richardson and Ken Ferris )

Mnuchin says small business rescue loans launch Friday, despite lender confusion .
2020-04-03 00:23:55 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said he was pressing ahead with the Friday launch of a $ 349 billion coronavirus rescue loan program for small businesses despite confusion over last - minute final rules and lenders unprepared to approve applications .
FILE PHOTO :
U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin testifies before the Senate Finance Committee during a hearing on the President 's FY2021 Budget on Capitol Hill in Washington , U.S. , February 12 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Yuri Gripas Mnuchin told a White House briefing on Thursday that the Treasury and the Small Business Administration had decided to double the interest rate on the loans to 1 % from 0.5 % previously so that small banks with higher deposit costs do n’t lose money .
He said the SBA application system would be “ up and running ” on Friday , and encouraged businesses to go to lenders to apply for loans .
“ You get the money , you ’ll get it the same day , you use this to pay your workers .
Please bring your workers back to work if you ’ve let them go , ” Mnuchin said .
However , he acknowledged that not every lender would be in a position to issue loans on Friday .
Treasury and SBA issued guidance on the program on Thursday evening , but lenders were still in the dark about procedures to issue loans in the program aimed keeping closed Main Street businesses from restaurants to nail salons from laying off their employees .
Speed of loan issuance had been given a high priority , but lenders have voiced concerns about potential liabilities for fraud , anti - money laundering violations and other legal requirements .
“ Financial institutions like ours are still awaiting guidance from the SBA and the U.S. Treasury , ” JPMorgan Chase
Co ( JPM.N ) said in an email on Thursday to small business customers on Thursday .
“ As a result , Chase will most likely not be able to start accepting applications on Friday , April 3rd , as we had hoped , ” according to the email seen by Reuters and verified by a bank spokeswoman .
The speed of the program , approved by Congress less than a week ago , has put major strains on the Small Business Administration , a low - profile agency known for its methodical approach to government - guaranteed loans for small firms ..
The $ 349 billion government - guaranteed loan program is a centerpiece of the $ 2.2 trillion U.S. coronavirus rescue package .
Depending on their size and payroll , owners of businesses can get loans of up to $ 10 million to cover about eight weeks of payroll and other qualified overhead expenses such as rent and utilities .
If they spend the proceeds on these uses , the loans are fully refundable by the Treasury .
Bankers say they that program could be depleted quickly .
“ We anticipate more demand than supply , ” said Tony Wilkinson , president of the National Association of Government Guaranteed Lenders , which represents SBA and other lenders .
“ We ’ve got to get lenders comfortable with the rules so that we know that when we originate a loan , counting on a government guarantee , that we ’re doing the things necessary so that we actually have the government guarantee . ”
He said that banks will take in applications on Friday , but it ’s unclear how many can be approved .
“ They will process and close them after they know what the rules are . ”
Reporting by David Lawder , Ann Saphir and Andy Sullivan ; Editing by Daniel
Wallis

Bed Bath sues 1-800-Flowers for trying to renege on deal over COVID-19 .
2020-04-02 23:29:35 +00:00 .
WILMINGTON , Del ( Reuters ) - Bed Bath Beyond Inc ( BBBY.O ) has asked a judge to hold 1 - 800 - Flowers .
Com Inc ( FLWS.O ) to a $ 252 million deal between the companies in what appears to one of the first examples of a corporate sale coming unraveled due to the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
The sign outside the Bed Bath Beyond store is seen in Westminster , Colorado , June 22 , 2016 REUTERS /
Rick Wilking
The internet retailer of flowers and gift baskets agreed in February to buy the Pmall.com business from home furnishings retailer Bed Bath Beyond , with a closing date of March 30 .
Bed Bath said in its complaint , filed in Delaware ’s Court of Chancery , that 1 - 800 - Flowers told it on March 24 the COVID-19 outbreak , the disease caused by the coronavirus , denied the company the resources to close the deal and integrate the business .
1 - 800 -
Flowers said it was delaying closing to April 30 , according to the filing .
“ Even a calamitous event such as COVID-19 does not permit a party to avoid its obligations , ” the lawsuit said .
1 - 800 -
Flowers said it still wanted to proceed with the deal , but the pandemic kept it from satisfying conditions of the deal , due to which it has requested a delay in the transaction ’s closing .
“ While we still desire to proceed with the transaction , we maintain that the conditions to closing the transaction have not been satisfied in light of the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic , including the shut - down of the PersonalizationMall.com facilities until at least April 30 , 2020 ” , the company said , adding it aims to defend itself against the lawsuit .
Shares in Bed Bath were down about 6.8 % in late trading at $ 3.53 , while 1 - 800 - Flowers stock was down about 3.5 % at $ 12.20 .
Both trade on the Nasdaq , which was up about 0.6 % .
The sale agreement contains a “ material adverse effect ” clause , or MAE , that permits 1 - 800 - Flowers to terminate if there is an event that has a disproportionate impact on Pmall.com , as opposed to a broad - based impact across the economy .
Bed Bath ’s court papers said 1 - 800 - Flowers did not invoke the MAE .
Wall Street ’s dealmakers are closely watching the impact of the pandemic and unprecedented economic shutdown .
Deal activity in the United States fell by half from a year ago in the first three months of 2020 , to $ 252 billion .
Many pending deals were negotiated months before the pandemic intensified , raising doubts if buyers will make good on their agreements .
U.S. auto parts company BorgWarner Inc ( BWA.N ) threatened to walk away from a $ 951 million deal to buy Delphi Technologies ( DLPH.N ) on Tuesday after the automotive equipment supplier drew down on a credit line without its acquirer ’s approval .
Despite the unprecedented impact of “ stay home ” orders that have shut businesses globally and contributed to a plunge in oil prices , corporate lawyers have questioned if buyers can get out of mergers .
Delaware judges have a history of holding buyers to deals , although in 2018 Germany ’s Fresenius SE ( FREG.DE ) was allowed to end its $ 4.75 billion takeover of Akorn Inc ( AKRX.O ) , after the generic drugmaker suffered a dramatic decline in business .
Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington , Delaware ; additional reporting Anurag Maan in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Leslie Adler and Shinjini Ganguli

China answers Brazil plea for medical equipment to fight coronavirus .
2020-04-02 21:37:24 +00:00 .
BRASILIA / SAO PAULO ( Reuters ) - Brazil faces a tense period in the coming weeks in its battle against the coronavirus , with supplies of medical and protective equipment running low and fresh shipments from China not expected to arrive in the country for another month .
A worker disinfects a bus stop during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Curitiba , Brazil , April 2 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Rodolfo Buhrer
The Health Ministry said on Thursday the federal government ’s stock of personal protective equipment for health professionals , such as masks and gloves , had been entirely disbursed to local authorities .
Health Minister Luiz Henrique Mandetta said Brazil had to turn to several countries before it could find a taker for its 1.2 billion reais ( $ 228 million ) order to restock .
“ The first country said no , the second said no , and we were worried .
At the end of the afternoon yesterday , the fifth country agreed and will deliver in 30 days .
It is a very large purchase , enough for more than 60 days , ” he said .
That country is China , the Health Ministry told Reuters , adding that the order is for 200 million items .
China , where the coronavirus emerged late last year , has been leveraging its production of medical equipment and expertise in halting the coronavirus as a soft - power tool in regions like South America , where it is jostling for influence against the United States .
The death toll in Brazil has been rising sharply .
Health Ministry figures showed that the number of deaths jumped 23 % overnight to 299 and the number of confirmed cases rose 15 % to 7,910 .
President Jair Bolsonaro , speaking to church ministers in Brasilia , once again downplayed the epidemic , saying it was “ not all it ’s being made out to be . ”
According to the Health Ministry , the federal government has transferred its entire medical equipment stock of 40 million items to local authorities , which will be enough for about 20 days , on top of what states and municipalities already have .
Mandetta said states are well supplied right now but demand is set to rise as cases multiply .
Meanwhile , Brazil ’s congress could vote by Friday on the so - called “ war budget ” to help minimize the economic damage from the coronavirus , lower house speaker Rodrigo Maia said earlier .
There is no value attached to the budget yet , but Maia has said previously that resources of up to 400 billion reais ( $ 95 billion ) could be needed .
The constitutional amendment must be approved twice in both chambers and receive three - fifths of the votes each time .
“ I am optimistic that we can conclude voting by Friday , ” Maia said of the package , comprising emergency funds to support the economy in a separate budget that will not have to meet fiscal rules .
Reporting by Maria Carolina Marcello , Lisandra Paraguassu and Eduardo Simoes ; Writing by Ana Mano and Gabriela Mello and Jamie McGeever ; Editing by Bernadette Baum and Rosalba
O'Brien

Some direct payments will take months to reach Americans: congressional panel .
2020-04-02 20:51:00 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - Americans should start receiving direct payments from the U.S. government in mid - April to help them cope with the coronavirus pandemic , but some may not see the money until mid - September , according to a congressional committee .
FILE PHOTO :
A person in a mask walks on a nearly empty street in the coronavirus outbreak near the Treasury Department in Washington , U.S. March 30 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Jonathan Ernst / File Photo
The government is expected to distribute 60 million payments of up to $ 1,200 per individual during the week of April 13 using bank deposit information from 2018 and 2019 federal income tax filings , according to a memo from Democrats on the House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee .
It will not begin to send out paper checks to those who have no bank deposit information on file until around May 4 , according to the memo , which was reviewed by Reuters .
The Internal Revenue Service expects to issue about 5 million checks per week , meaning some Americans may wait 20 weeks , the memo said .
The checks will be issued in “ reverse adjusted gross income order , ” starting with people with the lowest income .
Under that schedule , the last checks would arrive around Sept. 21 , potentially blunting the effectiveness of the direct payments , which economists call one of the quickest and most effective ways to stimulate the economy .
An IRS spokesman did not respond to a request for comment .
The payments are authorized by a $ 2.2 trillion coronavirus stimulus bill passed by Congress and signed into law by President Donald Trump last week .
People earning up to $ 75,000 a year can expect payments of up to $ 1,200 , with an additional $ 500 per child .
Those earning more than $ 99,000 are not eligible .
The money will flow to Americans sooner than under past initiatives .
In 2001 , the IRS needed over six weeks to issue rebates authorized by President George W. Bush ’s tax cut .
Seven years later , it took nearly three months to issue the first payments to fight the Great Recession .
But the summer - long timeline for checks is too slow to help people beset by the current pandemic , analysts said .
“ Not very effective , ” said Howard Gleckman of the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center .
“ I ’ve got to buy food today .
I ’ve got to pay bills now .
Giving me money in September ?
I ’ll take it , but it ’s not helping with my immediate problems . ”
The Trump administration initially said people who do not file tax returns would have to fill out a simplified form to get a payment .
Under pressure from Democrats who said senior citizens and others would be penalized , the Treasury later announced that Social Security beneficiaries would not have to complete additional paperwork .
Others who do not file tax returns still need to file a simplified form to get the money .
The IRS expects to create an online portal by late April or early May through which taxpayers can learn the status of their payment and update direct deposit information , the memo said .
The IRS is also looking for information on about 90 million to 110 million taxpayers who are either filers or non - filers , the document said .
Reporting by David Morgan ;
editing by Andy Sullivan , Chizu Nomiyama , Leslie Adler and David Gregorio

Oil soars after Trump says Saudis and Russians to cut output .
2020-04-02 15:59:03 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) - Oil prices soared on Thursday after U.S. President Donald Trump said he expects Russia and Saudi Arabia to announce a major oil production cut , and Saudi state media said the kingdom was calling an emergency meeting of oil producers to deal with the market turmoil .
Trump said he had spoken to Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman , and expects Saudi Arabia and Russia to cut oil output by as much as 10 million to 15 million barrels per day , as the two countries signaled willingness to make a deal .
That set off a swift rally in oil markets , with Brent futures soaring $ 4.80 , or 19 % , to $ 29.56 a barrel by 11:42 a.m. EDT ( 1542 GMT ) , while U.S. West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) crude rose $ 4.59 , or 23 % , to $ 22.55 .
Saudi Arabia was expected to call an emergency meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries .
The Wall Street Journal reported that the kingdom would consider dropping output to roughly 9 million barrels per day , or about 3 million bpd less than what it planned on pumping in April .
“ The question will come down to , will they be able to agree to something ?
It ’s taken couple of weeks of Brent at $ 25 and WTI at $ 20 and it seems as if Russians are more approachable than they were a month ago , ” said Gene McGillian , vice president of market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford , Connecticut .
Trump did not specify that the cut referred to barrels per day , but that is the most common way oil markets refer to supply and demand .
Earlier in the session , Brent soared as much as 47 % , its highest gain ever .
WTI , meanwhile , jumped as much as 35 % , which was it second highest ever following an intraday gain of 36 % on March 19 .
Oil markets have been under pressure ever since early March , when Saudi Arabia and Russia were unable to come to terms on a deal to curb production , and the Saudis responded by boosting output to more than 12 million bpd and shipping out cargoes worldwide at discounted prices .
Since then , the worsening of the coronavirus pandemic has severely cut fuel demand , pushing U.S. crude as low as about $ 20 per barrel .
With fuel demand expected to fall by 20 % to 30 % in the coming months , pressure was building on the oil producers to come to a deal , and Trump expressed growing frustration about the price of oil and its effect on the energy industry .
He is meeting with major energy chief executives at the White House on Friday .
FILE PHOTO :
The sun sets behind a crude oil pump jack on a drill pad in the Permian Basin in Loving County , Texas , U.S. November 24 , 2019 .
Picture taken November 24 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Angus Mordant / File Photo
A cut of 10 million to 15 million barrels per day would be unprecedented , and would likely need the participation of numerous countries outside of OPEC and its allies .
Texas regulators are exploring the possibility of cutting production in that state , which produces more than 5 million barrels per day .
“ It ’s one thing to send optimistic tweets and quite another to coordinate actual production cuts when Russia dragged its feet throughout the OPEC+ era and the U.S. has no controlling authority to implement production limits , ” said Sandy Fielden , director of oil and products research at Morningstar in Austin , Texas .
Additional reporting by Julia Payne in London , Shu Zhang in Singapore and Sonali Paul in Melbourne ; Editing by Marguerita Choy and
Bernadette Baum

Somali doctor, veteran of many battles, girds for war with coronavirus .
2020-04-02 15:38:46 +00:00 .
MOGADISHU ( Reuters ) -
Somali doctor Abdirizak Yusuf Ahmed has escaped an execution , battled deadly diseases and treated war victims .
Now - at 35 years old - he ’s been tapped to lead his nation ’s response to the coronavirus .
So far , Somalia has reported only three cases .
But if the disease is unleashed , it could spread like wildfire through camps housing malnourished families who huddle under makeshift domes built from sticks and rags .
Many of the 2.4 million Somalis displaced by conflict and other disasters live in such camps .
Out of a total population of 15 million , around six million Somalis may not have enough to eat this year , the United Nations says , weakening their immune systems and ability to survive the pandemic .
Islamist al Shabaab insurgents also hold parts of southern Somalia , making it hard for health workers to visit and impossible to do testing there .
“ I have witnessed wars , cholera , dysentery , ” Ahmed , tall and bespectacled , told Reuters .
“ A doctor who fears for his life can not save people .
I have learned to forget worrying and instead help rescue people . ”
A decade ago , al Shabaab seized him as he was trying to stem a cholera epidemic in territory they held .
They had seen a cross inside his ambulance and - wrongly assuming it meant he was a foreign spy - arrested him and his team .
A phone call from a high - level contact saved their lives , he said .
Somali doctor Abdirizak Yusuf Ahmed speaks during an interview with Reuters in his office in Mogadishu , Somalia March 18 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Feisal Omar SHORTAGE OF BEDS
Right now , Somalia only has about 25 intensive care beds , 110 quarantine beds and 100 treatment beds available , Ahmed said .
More are being built .
In the capital , patients at the old Italian - built maternity Martini Hospital have been moved out to make way for a new coronavirus ward .
The sound of hammering echoes through its wide , tree - lined compound as construction workers rush to finish repairs .
The health ministry and prime minister ’s office have allocated about $ 11 million for coronavirus preparation , Ahmed said .
Expenses are high - all medical equipment is imported and coronavirus tests are sent to Kenya for processing .
The World Health Organisation ( WHO ) has trained 500 health workers in Somalia since January , said Dr. Mamunur Rahman Malik , the organisation ’s country representative .
The WHO also brought in personal protective equipment to handle the first 300 or 400 cases
, Malik added .
Ahmed ’s biggest worry is that the disease may spread very fast .
Somalia has a tradition of physical greetings , and even wealthy people are reluctant to quarantine away from family .
A general view shows an isolation facility prepared as part of measures to prevent the potential spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) at the Martini Hospital in Mogadishu , Somalia March 18 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Feisal Omar
Many , like Faduma Abdikadir , simply have nowhere to isolate themselves .
The 38 - year - old mother is sleeping under a tree in a makeshift camp in the capital Mogadishu with her eight children , having fled fighting in the countryside .
“ Most of the time we use ashes and sand to wash hands .
We are hungry .
We beg people to buy water to drink and wash our hands , ” she said .

National committees have final say on qualified athletes for Tokyo Olympic Games .
2020-04-02 15:20:44 +00:00 .
ATHENS ( Reuters ) - Athletes already qualified for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics will need to be picked again by their respective National Olympic Committees to compete at the postponed Games in 2021 , the International Olympic Committee said on Thursday .
FILE PHOTO :
Countdown clocks for the opening of Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games that are currently covered with banners that read ' Adjusting ' are seen after postponing Games due to the outbreak of coronavirus disease ( COVID 19 ) , in Tokyo , Japan March 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Issei Kato / File Photo
The IOC and Japanese government succumbed to intense pressure from athletes and sporting bodies around the world last week by agreeing to postpone the Games by a year to 2021 because of the coronavirus pandemic .
Some 57 % of the 11,000 athletes had already qualified for the Tokyo Games this year before qualification tournaments were scrapped as the virus spread in recent months .
Those athletes , the IOC said , would keep their qualification but would need to be re - selected for next year by their National Olympic Committee again as they represented a nation and not themselves .
“ All of the qualifications that have been achieved by National Olympic Committees and individual athletes remain in place , ” IOC Sports director Kit McConnell said in a conference call .
“ Any athlete needs to be individually selected because they represent their NOC .
In all sports the NOC retains the right to select the athletes . ”
McConnell said the IOC was also in talks with world soccer ’s governing body FIFA to decide on the tournament next year , as only players aged under 23 are allowed to compete apart from a limited number of over - age players per team .
In many cases footballers will be above the age limit next year although having qualified this year .
“ In several sports there are specific age regulations , minimum or maximum , for health safety or to provide an age group as in men ’s football with under-23 . ”
“ We are in discussions with FIFA ...
We have to finalise that in the coming weeks . ”
The IOC is also efforting to make the athletes ’ village available again after it was planned to be sold off as apartments after this year ’s Games .
“ The village is part of the first priority , ” the IOC ’s Olympic Games Executive Director Christophe Dubi said .
“ The village is the home away from home , a fantastic development .
It is one of the very first tasks to re - secure this fantastic property .
Yes , it is absolutely on that urgency list ” .
Dubi said those first priority venues , including the dozens of sports venues , convention sites and thousands of hotel rooms , would need to be re - secured quickly .
“ All of this has to be re - secured for one year later , ” Dubi said .
“ It is a massive undertaking to get back to fundamentals . ”
He added that the IOC planned to have finalised talks for those “ priority ” locations in a matter of weeks .
Reporting by Karolos Grohmann ;
Editing by Ken Ferris

Rugby: England coach Jones signs new deal through 2023 World Cup .
2020-04-02 11:28:10 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Eddie Jones has decided to stay on as England coach through to the 2023 Rugby World Cup in France after concluding “ the project had n’t finished , ” the Australian said on Thursday .
FILE PHOTO :
Rugby Union - Six Nations Championship - England v Wales - Twickenham Stadium , London , Britain - March 7 , 2020
England head coach Eddie Jones during the warm up before the match REUTERS /
Toby Melville Jones , whose contract was set to expire in August 2021 , had been in talks over a new deal since guiding England to the 2019 World Cup final , where they lost to South Africa .
“ Having done the four years I felt the project had n’t been finished and there is still a lot of growth in the team , ” Jones , who is currently in Japan , told a media teleconference .
“ I want to make sure I can still improve the team so it ’s a good fit for me .
It ’s a relatively young side
and I think I can add to the growth of the team . ”
Having just fallen short at the World Cup - after also losing in the final against England when coach of Australia in 2003 - Jones said he wanted to use the Six Nations as a gauge .
England lost their opener to France but victories over Scotland , Ireland and Wales put them in a strong position to take the title , before the championship was suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic .
“ The Six Nations was quite important as I wanted to make sure I could have an effect , and I believe I can , ” he said .
“ I never thought coming here four years ago I would be doing a second four years but the circumstances are right . ”
No dates are in place for the remaining Six Nations games , and with England ’s planned summer tour of Japan unlikely to go ahead and uncertainty over the four scheduled November internationals , Jones ’s usually meticulous planning has had to be put on hold .
“ It ’s about controlling what you can control , ” said the 60 - year - old Australian , who has taken a temporary pay cut of 25 % as the RFU battles with its finances in the face of the coronavirus .
“ But our problems are quite insignificant compared to the rest of the world so we ’ll keep everything in perspective .
Then when we do come back , we want to play with pride and passion and give people something to enjoy .
In the meantime we have just to play our roles in being good citizens and help support as much as we can . ”
The details of the new deal were concluded several weeks ago and the RFU announced the deal on Thursday , saying they wanted to “ share some good news in exceptionally difficult times . ”
“ We have announced the extension a few weeks later than planned as our focus was diverted to support the English rugby community during this difficult time , we are now turning our attention to developing plans to support the rebooting of rugby and a winning England team will provide a vital role in that , ” said CEO Bill Sweeney .
Since taking charge of England at the end of 2015 , Jones has won 42 of his 54 matches , giving him a win ratio of 78 % , the best of any England coach .
Jones , who has won two Six Nations titles , will surpass World Cup winner Clive Woodward as England ’s longest - serving coach if he completes a second World Cup cycle .
Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru / Mitch Phillips ;
Editing by Peter Rutherford and Toby Davis

PRECIOUS-Gold eases on firmer dollar as market awaits jobs data .
2020-04-02 11:15:14 +00:00 .
( Updates prices , adds chart )
* U.S. weekly jobless claims data due at 1230 GMT * SPDR Gold Trust holdings hit highest since October 2016
* Interactive graphic tracking the global spread- open tmsnrt.rs/3aIRuz7 in an external browser
By Brijesh Patel
April 2 ( Reuters ) -
Gold inched lower on Thursday as the dollar firmed , but losses were limited as investors braced for U.S. jobless claims data due later in the day , which should give clues on how much the coronavirus is hurting the world ’s biggest economy .
Spot gold was down 0.1 % at $ 1,589.71 per ounce by 1050 GMT , while U.S. gold futures rose 0.7 % to $ 1,602.60 an ounce .
“ Both bulls and bears can build a narrative in gold right now , with low inflation , weak physical demand from key buyers and the dollar ’s strength for the bears and the economic shock , negative real yields and cenbank easing for bulls , ” said Saxo Bank analyst Ole Hansen .
“ The oil price jump is adding some ‘ risk on ’ to stocks as well , which is probably reducing demand for gold a little bit . ”
European shares rose in choppy trading , while crude oil futures jumped 10 % after U.S. President Donald Trump said he expected Saudi Arabia and Russia to reach a deal soon to end their oil price war .
The dollar held onto overnight gains as investors rushed to the security of the world ’s most liquid currency .
Market participants awaited weekly jobless claims report from the U.S. Labor Department due at 1230 GMT for an indication of the economy ’s health .
Goldman Sachs expects the jobless claims to jump to a record 6 million for the March 22 - 28 week .
The United States has the highest number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 .
Nearly 188,000 people have been infected and 4,000 have died , according to a Reuters tally of data .
“ Should stocks come under pressure over the next couple of weeks as the coronavirus death toll in the U.S. and elsewhere accelerates rapidly , gold may find itself a haven once again for risk - averse investors , ” OANDA analyst Craig Erlam said in a note .
Indicative of sentiment , holdings in the world ’s largest gold - backed exchange - traded fund , SPDR Gold Trust , rose 0.18 % to 968.75 tonnes on Wednesday , their highest since October 2016 .
Among other precious metals , palladium rose 3.5 % to $ 2,294.27 per ounce , while platinum edged 0.2 % higher to $ 718.62 .
“ Auto data out of the U.S. and Europe paint a bleak picture .
Chinese data is beginning to show green shoots and should be supportive to palladium and to a lesser extent platinum , ” MKS PAMP said in a note .
Silver XAG= gained 0.9 % to $ 14.13 per ounce .
Reporting by Brijesh Patel and Arpan Varghese in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Susan Fenton and
Jan Harvey

Olympics: Tokyo 2020 delay a blessing in disguise for India's Chopra .
2020-04-02 08:58:10 +00:00 .
MUMBAI ( Reuters ) - Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra will have to wait another year before chasing India ’s first Olympic track and field medal in Tokyo but the delay may turn out to be a blessing in disguise , the 22 - year - old has told Reuters .
Athletics - 2018 Asian Games - Men 's Javelin Throw - GBK Main Stadium , Jakarta , Indonesia - August 27 , 2018
Gold medalist Neeraj Chopra of India REUTERS /
Darren Whiteside The Commonwealth and Asian Games champion , seen as one of India ’s best medal prospects at the Games , spent the whole of 2019 recovering from an elbow operation on his throwing arm .
He only qualified for the Tokyo Olympics in January with a throw of 87.86 meters at a low - key meet in South Africa — his first competitive outing since September 2018 .
But with the Tokyo Games put back by a year due to the coronavirus pandemic , Chopra will have more time to get himself into peak form .
“ I was probably not 100 % fit after the surgery I had , ” he told Reuters from the National Institute of Sports in Patiala , where he is in quarantine after returning from a training camp in Turkey .
“ So the goal will be to be even better prepared than I was for this year ’s Games .
“ I had found very little time to work on my technique as I was concentrating more on rehab .
I did n’t have much time to work on my throws as I started very late .
Now I will try to solve the problems that I have noticed . ”
Chopra , who had to rush home from Turkey after India started banning flights from Europe to contain the spread of the coronavirus two weeks ago , was not surprised when the Games were put back to July and August of 2021 .
“ Even before the decision was announced , it had occurred to me that because of the prevailing situation it is quite likely that the Olympics will get postponed , ” he said .
“ But it ’s not too much of a problem because with the way things are in the world today it was necessary to postpone the Games .
There was no point in carrying on with the Games or athletes going to participate in this situation . ”
ZELEZNY VIDEOS
Chopra became only the third man from India to win an athletics gold at the Commonwealth Games when he took title in April 2018 with a throw of 86.47 .
After throwing 87.43 at the Doha Diamond League meeting the following month he claimed a personal best at the Asian Games in Jakarta soon afterwards , his gold medal winning throw of 88.06 also the IAAF ’s sixth longest of the year .
Hailing from the state of Haryana , which is better known for producing wrestlers and kabaddi players , Chopra studied videos of Jan Zelezny after deciding to pick up a javelin .
Zelezny ’s throw of 98.48 in 1996 still stands as the world record and Chopra says he modelled his own throwing style and technique on the Czech ’s .
“ I have heard that javelin athletes peak after 24 - 25 years of age , ” he said .
“ Even when Jan Zelezny did the world record he was about 28 - 29 .
So this one year may prove to be more fruitful for me . ”
While India is credited with Norman Pritchard ’s sprint and hurdles silver medals from the 1900 Olympics before it gained independence from Britain , the world ’s second - most populous nation considers itself never to have won an athletics medal at the Games .
“ If people have hopes of a medal from me , that is not really so much pressure , ” Chopra said .
“ It is a good thing for an athlete that people have these expectations and they think he can do well and make history .
“ That is fine , my job is to try live up to those expectations . ”
Editing by Peter Rutherford

Australia begins pre-clinical testing for coronavirus vaccine .
2020-04-02 06:23:02 +00:00 .
SYDNEY ( Reuters ) - Australia ’s national science agency said on Thursday it has commenced the first stage of testing potential vaccines for COVID-19 , as it joins a global race to halt the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO : the 2019 Novel Coronavirus ( 2019 - nCoV ) , which was identified as the cause of an outbreak of respiratory illness first detected in Wuhan , China , is seen in an illustration released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) in Atlanta , Georgia , U.S. January 29 , 2020 .
Alissa Eckert , MS ; Dan Higgins , MAM / CDC / Handout via REUTERS .
Pre - clinical testing by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation ( CSIRO ) , comprising injecting ferrets with two potential vaccines , was underway at its high - containment biosecurity facility near Melbourne .
The first phase testing would take around three months , CSIRO ’s director of health Rob Grenfell told Reuters , adding that any resulting vaccine would not be available to the public before late next year .
“ We ’re still sticking to the optimistic 18 months for delivery of vaccine to the general consumers , ” Grenfell said from Melbourne in an interview over Skype .
“ Now this , of course , may change .
There ’s a lot of technical challenges that we ’re having to go through . ”
Grenfell said scientists were working at a “ remarkable ” pace , reaching the pre - clinical testing stage in about eight weeks , a process that usually takes up to two years .
“ So , this is the speed that ’s going on at the moment . ”
More than 850,000 people have been infected with the novel coronavirus across 207 countries and territories , killing more than 42,000 .
Australia has reported around 5,200 cases and 24 deaths .
Grenfell said he expected human trials of one of the two vaccine candidates being tested to begin later this month or early next month .
CSIRO said its testing would cover both efficacy and evaluating the best way to administer the vaccine for better protection , including an intra - muscular injection and a nasal spray .
CSIRO was the first research organisation outside of China to successfully develop a lab - grown version of the virus to enable pre - clinical studies on COVID-19 .
In February , it confirmed ferrets reacted to the coronavirus as they shared with humans a particular receptor on their respiratory cells that the virus binds itself to .
“ If we can stop that virus binding to the ferret receptors in the respiratory system , there ’s a very good chance it ( vaccine ) will work in humans , ” Grenfell said .
Moderna Inc is the closest publicly known facility to human testing , announcing plans to start a trial in Seattle last month .
The U.S. government has cut deals with both Moderna and Johnson Johnson , and is in talks with at least two other companies , to produce massive quantities of vaccines .
Israel has begun testing a COVID-19 vaccine prototype on rodents at its bio - chemical defense laboratory , a source told Reuters on Tuesday .
In Australia , thousands of healthcare workers last week entered a trial to see if a century - old vaccine for tuberculosis can fight off the novel coronavirus .
Reporting by Jill Gralow and Swati Pandey ;
editing by Jane Wardell

Breakingviews - Seoul's virus tests yield false economic positive .
2020-04-02 04:59:15 +00:00 .
Kim Min - bae , CEO of iONEBIO Inc. poses for photographs with samples of iLAMP Novel - Coronavirus
Detection Kit after an interview with Reuters at a company office in Seongnam , South Korea , March 26 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Kim Hong - Ji HONG KONG ( Reuters Breakingviews ) - South Korea may have spared many of its citizens from the coronavirus , but saving the $ 1.6 trillion economy could be even harder .
Early widespread testing is being credited for slowing the pace of infections .
It ’s not obvious , however , whether any benefits will extend beyond the extraordinary feat of saving lives .
The containment efforts are being held up as a global model .
As early as January , weeks before a major outbreak erupted in the southeastern city of Daegu , authorities started mobilising to find out who had contracted the disease .
This included fast - tracking regulatory approvals , setting up drive - through screening centres and aggressively tracing and isolating patients and their contacts .
By March , South Korea ’s testing capacity hit 20,000 a day , as new cases gradually ebbed .
Korean companies are now shipping kits to the United States and elsewhere .
President Moon Jae - in may need to wait a while for additional advantages to filter through .
Millions of homebound consumers have been stocking up .
Online shopping surged by more than a third year on year in February , but overall domestic consumption and investment has been sluggish as contagion fears linger .
In financial markets , the benchmark KOSPI index has underperformed the Nasdaq Composite since the start of the year .
The won , meanwhile , plunged 5 % against the U.S. dollar in the first quarter .
The prognosis looks bleak .
Abroad , the pandemic has worsened considerably , with nearly 700,000 cases worldwide as of Tuesday .
The IMF now reckons the world will contract economically this year .
Even if South Korea manages to prevent another outbreak – a big if – falling global demand will batter exports , which account for 40 % of economic output .
Last week , SP slashed its forecast for the country to -0.6 % , from 1.6 % in February .
Even as Moon prepares a fresh fiscal package , companies are bracing for a downturn .
Business sentiment suffered its worth monthly fall in 17 years , according to the central bank ’s survey for April .
Despite its pandemic head start , South Korea will have to wait for the rest of the world to heal .
Breakingviews Reuters Breakingviews is the world 's leading source of agenda - setting financial insight .
As the Reuters brand for financial commentary , we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day .
A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York , London , Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time .
Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com .
All opinions expressed are those of the authors .

Exclusive: Top U.S. banks may shun small-business rescue plan on liability worries - sources .
2020-04-02 03:15:41 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -
Top U.S. banks have threatened to give the federal government ’s small - business rescue program a miss on concerns about taking on too much financial and legal risk , five people with direct knowledge of industry discussions told Reuters .
FILE PHOTO :
U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin walks to the meeting with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer ( D - NY ) ( not pictured ) during negotiations on a coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) relief package on Capitol in Washington , U.S. , March 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Joshua Roberts / File Photo
Seeking to help millions of small businesses whose operations have either shut down or have been dramatically curtailed by the coronavirus pandemic , Congress last week passed a $ 2 trillion stimulus package that includes $ 349 billion aimed at small firms .
Borrowers can apply for the loans through participating banks starting from Friday and until June 30 .
Trump administration officials have said they want the loans disbursed within days .
But representatives of some big lenders , in an industry conference call on Wednesday , expressed serious reservations about participating in the scheme in its current form .
Their main concern is that the Treasury Department has said it expects lenders to verify borrower eligibility , and take steps to prevent fraud , money laundering and protect customer information under the Bank Secrecy Act , sources said .
Banks are worried they could face regulatory penalties or legal costs down the line if things go awry in the haste to get money out the door , or get blamed for not moving funds fast enough if they perform due diligence the way they would in ordinary times , the sources said .
After hearing the concerns , Treasury officials are considering withdrawing guidance that instructed lenders to verify borrowers had the specified number of employees on their books , and that their other costs are legitimate , according to two sources .
Reuters could not learn which specific banks are thinking about boycotting the program .
The Bank Policy Institute ( BPI ) , which hosted the call on Wednesday , counts lenders including JPMorgan Chase
Co
( JPM.N ) , Bank of America Corp ( BAC.N ) , Wells Fargo Co ( WFC.N ) and Citigroup Inc ( C.N ) as members .
A spokesman for BPI declined to comment .
The U.S. Treasury Department and the Small Business Administration , which are jointly administering the loans program , did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
Banks want a document customers can sign attesting to their eligibility and other requirements , thereby relieving the industry of responsibility for potential misconduct .
One source said banks are also seeking a written assurance from the government regarding their legal liabilities and obligations before they agree to participate in the program .
Writing by Michelle Price ;
Editing by Lauren LaCapra and Muralikumar Anantharaman

sues to force Altria to unwind investment in Juul .
2020-04-02 01:45:19 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission said on Wednesday it had filed a complaint aimed at forcing Marlboro maker Altria Group to sell its investment in e - cigarette maker Juul Labs Inc. FILE PHOTO :
Federal Trade Commission seal is seen at a news conference to announce that Facebook Inc has agreed to a settlement of allegations it mishandled user privacy at FTC Headquarters in Washington , U.S. , July 24 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Yuri Gripas
The FTC has probed Altria ’s decision to buy a 35 % stake in Juul , announced in December 2018 , for $ 12.8 billion .
The value of the investment has dwindled to $ 4.2 billion , following a series of writedowns last year , as Juul faced litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny over its contribution to a surge in teenage vaping .
Altria and Juul were once competitors in the e - cigarette market .
The FTC alleges that once Juul skyrocketed to become the market - leading e - cigarette maker in 2018 , Altria dealt with the competition by “ agreeing not to compete in return for a substantial ownership interest in Juul . ”
“ Altria and Juul turned from competitors to collaborators by eliminating competition and sharing in Juul ’s profits , ” said Ian Conner , director of the FTC ’s Bureau of Competition .
Juul did not respond to a request for comment .
Altria said it planned to “ vigorously defend our investment . ”
“ We believe that our investment in Juul does not harm competition and that the FTC misunderstood the facts , ” said Murray Garnick , Altria ’s executive vice president and general counsel .
Altria ’s MarkTen was at one point the second most popular e - cigarette maker , the FTC said .
The FTC said Altria responded to Juul ’s threat to its business by agreeing not to compete in exchange for Altria ’s investment in the company .
Altria announced it would discontinue its MarkTen brand a few weeks before formally announcing the Juul investment in December 2018 .
The FTC announcement is the beginning of what is likely to be a lengthy process and adds to a relentless series of regulatory headaches for Juul over the past year .
The company stopped selling popular flavors such as mango and mint in the United States amid pressure from regulators and lawmakers , and shed hundreds of workers as it retooled under new management .
The company is facing a critical regulatory deadline later this year to prove that its products provide a net benefit to public health , meaning they aid smokers in quitting more than they lure teenagers or non - users into nicotine addiction .
Altria is Juul ’s largest investor , and a forced divestiture would raise substantial questions for the e - cigarette maker ’s future .
Although the Juul investment has become a disappointing one for Altria , the cigarette maker would be left searching for alternative products .
Altria initially believed Juul could play a major role in offsetting declining cigarette sales .
In January , the company projected U.S. cigarette sales would decline 4 % to 6 % this year .
Altria said in late March that Chief Executive Officer Howard Willard has contracted the coronavirus and is taking temporary medical leave .
Chief Financial Officer William Gifford Jr is taking over in his absence , the company disclosed on Friday .
In October , Altria had acknowledged that U.S. antitrust enforcers were also looking into allegations that it had potentially exerted influence over Juul before winning approval for the big share buy .
Prior to antitrust approval , it is illegal for companies involved in mergers or similar transactions to coordinate in many areas .
Reporting by Diane Bartz ; Editing by Cynthia Osterman and
Leslie Adler

U.S. shale company Whiting becomes first major bankruptcy of oil-price crash .
2020-04-01 20:45:35 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Whiting Petroleum Corp filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy , the U.S. shale producer said on Wednesday , the first publicly traded casualty of crashing crude oil prices that are expected to bite into record U.S. output .
FILE PHOTO :
A trader waits for the opening of Whiting Petroleum 's stock at the post where it is traded on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange March 24 , 2015 .
REUTERS / Brendan McDermid
Whiting was once the largest oil producer in North Dakota , now the second - biggest oil - producing state in the country .
It has agreed with creditors to cut its debt by about $ 2.2 billion through an exchange of some of its notes for 97 % of new equity .
Existing shareholders will own 3 % of the reorganized company .
Notably , Whiting said in a regulatory filing that on March 26 , in response to the circumstances affecting the oil industry , it revised its compensation program to pay out more than $ 13 million bonuses to several executives , including $ 6.4 million to CEO Brad Holly .
Numerous shale oil and gas producers , faced with burdensome debt loads , have cut spending aggressively as oil prices have plunged by about two - thirds this year with the coronavirus pandemic slamming fuel demand and Russia and Saudi Arabia flooding markets with extra crude .
A U.S. drilling boom over the last three years lifted national oil production to a record of roughly 13 million barrels per day , but investors have grown frustrated with poor returns .
Callon Petroleum and other companies have hired advisors to restructure debt .
Shares of Whiting fell 32 cents , or 47 % , to 36 cents each on Tuesday .
The company ’s market valuation has shrunk to $ 32 million from as much as $ 15 billion at its peak in 2011 , when investors were discovering the burgeoning shale sector .
As of Dec. 31 , Whiting had $ 2.8 billion in debt and more than $ 585 million in cash on its balance sheet .
Whiting is among the most shorted oil and gas stocks , with more than 60 % of its outstanding shares borrowed for short selling , according to FIS Astec Analytics data .
Analysts believe the energy sector is primed for more defaults in coming months .
Whiting ’s bankruptcy brings the trailing 12 - month high - yield energy default rate to more than 11 % , and the year - end figure could ultimately surpass the 19.7 % level set in January 2017 , according to Fitch Ratings .
Energy producers Chesapeake Energy Corp and Chaparral Energy Inc as well as natural gas producer
Gulfport Energy Corp are working with debt restructuring advisers or investment banks to shore up cash reserves .
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey analyst Neal Dingmann said filing for bankruptcy “ was more of a temporary solution than a long - term sustainable plan . ”
“ We believe this financial demise was due to a combination of difficult macro conditions combined with sub - par operations for several quarters , ” Dingmann said .
The company was also hampered by debt after purchasing rival Kodiak Oil gas in mid-2014 , just before shale ’s 2015 - 2016 crash , for $ 6 billion , which included $ 2.2 billion in debt .
Whiting was expected to produce about 42 million barrels of oil equivalent in 2020 .
It said it would continue to operate without material disruption to vendors , partners or employees .
Moelis
Co is Whiting ’s financial adviser , while Alvarez Marsal is its restructuring adviser .
PJT Partners is acting as financial adviser for creditors .
GRAPHIC : Oil price collapse here
Reporting by Arathy S Nair in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Anil D'Silva , Sweta Singh and David Gregorio

US STOCKS-Wall Street's major indexes slammed as virus anxiety grows .
2020-04-01 19:27:18 +00:00 .
( For a live blog on the U.S. stock market , click LIVE/ or type LIVE/ in a news window )
* Officials project jump in U.S. coronavirus deaths
* Investors look ahead to earnings
* All 11 major SP 500 sectors in the red
* Indexes slide : Dow 3.91 % , SP 4.13 % , Nasdaq 3.95 % ( Updates to late afternoon , adds commentary , changes byline , adds New York dateline )
By Sinéad Carew
April 1 ( Reuters ) -
The key SP 500 index was down more than 4 % on Wednesday after a dire warning on the U.S. death toll from the coronavirus and heightened nerves over the upcoming earnings reporting season sent investors running from even the most defensive equities .
Economic data showing a plunge in new orders for U.S.-made goods did not help , even as those numbers were not as bad as economists had feared .
Also , business closures pushed private payrolls down by 27,000 jobs last month , in the first decline since September 2017 , the ADP National Employment Report showed separately on Wednesday .
{ nL1N2BP0LV ]
The blue - chip Dow Jones Industrial Average and benchmark SP 500 indexes were set to extend losses after suffering their worst first quarter as President Donald Trump warned Americans of a “ painful ” two weeks ahead and health officials highlighted research predictions of an enormous jump in virus - related deaths .
Roughly two weeks before the first - quarter earnings season is due to start in earnest , investors are “ very sensitive to the latest headlines ” about the virus due to a lack of fundamental information , ” said John Augustine , chief investment officer at Huntington National Bank in Columbus , Ohio .
“ We do n’t know all the economic and earnings impact yet and this is a sober thought for Americans with those projections of the death rate , ” said Augustine .
“ Investors are starting to think about earnings season and many companies have pulled their guidance for the quarter .
Analysts are waiting to see what the companies have to say . ”
SP 500 firms are expected to enter an earnings recession in 2020 , falling 4.3 % in the first quarter and 10.9 % in the second , according to the latest estimates gathered by Refinitiv .
At 2:48 p.m. ET , the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 857.78 points , or 3.91 % , to 21,059.38 , the SP 500 lost 106.78 points , or 4.13 % , to 2,477.81 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 304.19 points , or 3.95 % , to 7,395.91 .
Even the sectors generally seen as the safer bets because of their high dividends saw a stampede to the exits , with real estate leading SP decliners with a 7 % drop along with utilities .
Consumer staples , down 1.3 % , and consumer discretionary down 3.6 % , fared best of the SP ’s 11 major sectors as many consumers have been busy stockpiling goods since they were advised to stay at home by the local and Federal government officials at least until the end of April .
Meanwhile , the collapse in oil prices claimed its first major casualty , with shale producer Whiting Petroleum filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection .
Its shares nearly halved in value .
The energy sector shed another 4 % , with experts now saying oil prices could touch single digits , exacerbated by a share tussle among top producers as the world runs out of storage space .
Shares of airlines and cruise operators fell further , with United Airlines down 17 % and Carnival Corp plunging 24 % , some of the biggest decliners on the SP 500 .
Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by a 9.25 - to-1 ratio ; on Nasdaq , a 7.12 - to-1 ratio favored decliners .
The SP 500 posted 1 new 52 - week highs and 11 new lows ; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 7 new highs and 65 new lows .
( Additional reporting by Uday Sampath and Medha Singh in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Bernadette Baum )

UPDATE 1-Lebanon's coronavirus lockdown piles pressure on flagging currency .
2020-04-01 17:55:52 +00:00 .
* Lebanese pound about 15 % weaker since March 15 lockdown * Dollars in shorter supply , price of imports set to rise
* Banks mostly closed since lockdown
* Lebanon has defaulted on foreign currency debt ( Adds coronavirus toll )
By Ellen Francis and Tom Perry BEIRUT , April 1 ( Reuters )
-
The battered Lebanese pound has weakened even more during a coronavirus lockdown , with banks blocking access to already scarce dollars , forcing up their price on the black market and the cost of imports the heavily indebted country relies on .
Since the government declared a medical emergency on March 15 , Lebanon ’s cash - strapped banks have limited their services to critical imports and paying out salaries in local currency while opening only a handful of branches .
The pound has since tumbled about 15 % , trading at around 2,850 pounds per dollar on Wednesday compared with about 2,500 before the shutdown , importers and currency dealers said .
That is about 47 % weaker than the official peg of 1,507.5 pounds to the dollar , a rate now available only to importers of wheat , medicine and fuel .
“ There ’s less and less cash available in the market , and this is one of the reasons why the black market rate is increasing , ” said Hani Bohsali , general manager of Bohsali Foods , a major food importer .
The parallel market has been the primary source of cash during the country ’s financial crisis , which saw it default on its foreign - currency debt on March 23 and launch formal debt - restructuring talks days later .
The government had sought in recent weeks to crack down on foreign exchange bureaus selling above an agreed rate of 2,000 pounds per dollar , with some shut down and others turning away customers seeking higher rates , making dollars more elusive .
Banks have now halted withdrawals which they had already capped at as little as $ 100 per week .
They introduced controls late last year when Lebanon sunk into a crisis after capital inflows slowed and protests erupted against the ruling elite .
While there has been no announcement on a move to stop dispensing dollars or on whether such measures were temporary , sources at four banks said that since the lockdown only freshly deposited dollars or those transferred in from abroad could be taken out .
The government has extended the coronavirus lockdown until April 12 , shutting nearly all businesses and the airport while enforcing an overnight curfew .
Lebanon has recorded 479 infections and 14 deaths , the health ministry said on Wednesday .
Depositors have been forced to withdraw their dollars from ATMs that convert them to Lebanese pounds at the official rate , slashing the value and angering Lebanese already hit by sweeping job cuts and rising inflation .
Bankers have put reduced dollar circulation in recent weeks down to worldwide airport closures choking the flow of dollars typically brought in by travellers and cargo shipments of banknotes .
But that account was disputed by Michel Mecattaf , a shareholder in a Lebanese company that ships banknotes , who was quoted by local media as saying that cargo shipments for banknotes were continuing .
( Reporting by Tom Perry and Ellen Francis ; Writing and additional reporting by Eric Knecht ;
Editing by Hugh Lawson and Mark Potter )

Coronavirus lockdown leaves no-one to harvest India's crops .
2020-04-01 16:06:20 +00:00 .
NEW DELHI / SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) -
A severe shortage of labour , triggered by India ’s 21 - day lockdown to curb the spread of the new coronavirus , will disrupt harvesting of winter crops in the world ’s second largest producer of staple food grains , such as wheat .
FILE PHOTO :
A farmer rests as his family members harvest a wheat crop in a field at Mannana village in Punjab April 22 , 2015 .
Picture taken April 22 , 2015 .
REUTERS / Ajay Verma / File Photo
The northern bread basket states of Punjab , Haryana and Uttar Pradesh rely on farm labourers from eastern India , but after the lockdown began on March 24 , most of them returned home to their villages .
“ We ’ve never seen anything like this , ” said Ramandeep Singh Mann , a farmer from Punjab , whose family grows wheat , rice and cotton on more than 45 acres ( 18 hectares ) and would employ about 10 workers if they used mechanical harvesters .
“ We ’ve no - one at all for harvests . ”
Mann is just one of thousands of farmers concerned he will be unable to get mechanical harvesters to fields or even manage to gather by hand crops likely to be ripe in mid - April .
Late harvests mean lower yields , reduced returns , and a smaller window to plant next season ’s crops , as well as leaving crops vulnerable to rain and hailstorms .
India has stockpiles of wheat , rice and sugar for its own population and has not been exporting wheat , so international grains markets are unlikely to be affected for now by the labour issues .
But trade and industry officials say delays in arrival , berthing and other shipping operations could affect rice exports , while the lack of workers could limit exports of fresh vegetables , such as onions .
Even if farmers manage to bring in the harvest , they could struggle to get produce to market because of a lack of drivers for the trucks that can carry large volumes .
Most farmers sell produce at wholesale markets , which depend on large numbers of labourers to unload produce and weigh and pack grain .
The staffing shortage could also delay farmers ’ payments for produce .
“ Who is going to put grains in the bag , bring produce to wholesale markets , and then transport it to various storage facilities ? ” asked Jadish Lal , a merchant at the Khanna grain market in Punjab .
In sum , the labour shortage is likely to paralyse activity at the wholesale markets , Sudhir Panwar , head of the farmers ’ group Kisan Jagriti Manch said , adding vegetable and horticulture growers are likely to struggle to sell produce , as well as the wheat and rapeseed farmers .
India has forecast wheat output at a record 106.21 million tonnes this year , and farmers are likely to produce 7.8 million tonnes of rapeseed .
Some farmers harvested early sown wheat and rapeseed varieties in March , but most growers will collect ripening crops by mid - April .
India has so far seen 1,251 infections and 32 deaths from the coronavirus outbreak , which has caused more than 850,000 cases worldwide , with more than 42,000 deaths .
Interactive graphic tracking global spread of coronavirus : open tmsnrt.rs/3aIRuz7 in an external browser .
Reporting by Rajendra Jadhav , Mayank Bhardwaj and Naveen Thukral ; Editing by Clarence Fernandez and
Barbara Lewis

American gymnast Biles cried at news of Tokyo postponement .
2020-04-01 16:04:41 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Four - times Olympic champion Simone Biles has finally broken her silence on the year - long postponement of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and said on Wednesday that while the news left her in tears it was the right call .
FILE PHOTO :
Artistic Gymnastics - 2019 World Artistic Gymnastics Championships - Women 's Floor Final - Hanns - Martin - Schleyer - Halle , Stuttgart , Germany - October 13 , 2019 Simone Biles of the U.S. in action REUTERS /
Wolfgang Rattay / File Photo
The American gymnast , who is typically very active on social media , appeared on NBC ’s ‘ Today ’ program from her home to give her first public comments since the Olympics were postponed last week because of the coronavirus pandemic .
“ I was actually in the gym training at the time because we were allowed under 10 people ... and I went to the locker in between rotations and I got a text , ” said Biles .
“ I did n’t really know what to feel .
I just kind of sat there .
I cried but ultimately it was the right decision .
We need to make sure everyone in the U.S. and around the world is healthy and safe .
It was hard
but it ’s okay . ”
The 23 - year - old Biles , already the most decorated gymnast in world championship history , had previously said she would retire after the Tokyo Olympics , which were originally scheduled to run from July 24 - Aug. 9 this year .
Biles , who in 2018 returned to competition after a nearly two - year layoff , must now endure another grueling stretch of training if she wants to ensure she will be at her dazzling best in Tokyo and admits it will be a challenge .
“ Physically I have no doubts that my coaches will get me back in shape , but mentally going another year , I think that is what ’s going to take the toll on me and all of us and most of the athletes , ” said Biles .
“ We have to stay in shape mentally just as much as physically .
That will play a big factor moving forward , listening to your body and your mind . ”
With many Americans staying at home to help slow the spread of the coronavirus , Biles said she has maintained contact with her coaches through text messages and video calls to figure out a plan moving forward for the next year .
“ Other than that , they have sent us at - home workouts .
I ’m also walking my dog a lot more .
Just trying to stay healthy and in shape before we can return to the gym and start the training process again , ” said Biles .
“ ( I ’m ) doing more bodywork , so like arms , abs , legs .
The other day I did a YouTube — it was like a twerk workout ...
It was a twerkout , but it was like a lot of squats and conditioning . ”
Reporting by Frank Pingue in Toronto ;
Editing by Ken Ferris

U.S. crude, gasoline stockpiles surge, fuel demand slumps on growing pandemic .
2020-04-01 15:07:41 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - U.S. crude oil and gasoline inventories surged last week while demand fell sharply and refineries throttled back activity in response to a sharp falloff in fuel demand due to the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
Pump jacks operate at sunset in an oil field in Midland , Texas U.S. August 22 , 2018 .
Picture taken August 22 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Nick Oxford Crude inventories rose by 13.8 million barrels in the week to March 27 to 469.2 million barrels , the U.S. Energy Information Administration said Wednesday .
That was the biggest one - week rise since 2016 , and analysts expect stocks to keep rising as refineries curb output and gasoline demand falls .
State governments have issued orders trying to halt the spread of the virus , and many residents are staying out of cars .
Gasoline demand fell by the most ever in one week , with products supplied , a proxy for demand , dropping by 2.2 million barrels per day to 6.7 million bpd .
That augurs for more refining cutbacks down the road .
“ Demand is a disaster , ” said Bob Yawger , director of energy futures at Mizuho in New York .
“ We have a ways to go before these numbers bottom out - this is going to be the way the next few reports are and it will drag on this way for quite some time . ”
Refinery crude runs fell by 940,000 bpd last week , the EIA said .
Refinery utilization rates fell by 5 percentage points on the week to 82.3 % of operable capacity , the lowest rate since September 2017 .
“ For refiners , the rate they ’re producing is as low as it can go for a number of them , ” said Ryan Kaup , commodities broker at CHS Hedging .
Oil prices were lower after the EIA report .
U.S. crude futures dropped 31 cents to $ 20.17 a barrel as of 10:49 a.m. ET ( 1449 GMT ) while Brent was down $ 1.35 , or 5 % , to $ 24.99 a barrel .
Crude stocks at the Cushing , Oklahoma , delivery hub rose by 3.5 million barrels in the last week , EIA said .
U.S. gasoline stocks rose by 7.5 million barrels to 246.8 million barrels , the EIA said , compared with analysts ’ expectations in a Reuters poll for a 1.9 million - barrel rise.​ Distillate stockpiles , which include diesel and heating oil , fell by 2.2 million barrels in the week , versus expectations for a 1 million - barrel rise , the EIA data showed .
Diesel demand has held up better than motor gasoline because many Americans are having products delivered to homes .
Net U.S. crude imports rose last week by 625,000 bpd last week , EIA said .
Reporting By David Gaffen ;
Editing by Marguerita Choy

April Fools! K-Pop star pranks his fans that he has coronavirus .
2020-04-01 14:41:45 +00:00 .
SEOUL ( Reuters ) -
A South Korean K - Pop star on Wednesday pulled an April Fool ’s prank announcing that he had contracted coronavirus , and later removed the Instagram post after triggering a backlash .
FILE PHOTO :
Kim Jaejoong ( R ) of South Korean pop group JYJ speaks to a news conference in Lima , Peru , March 10 , 2012 .
REUTERS / Pilar Olivares / File Photo
Kim
Jae - joong , a member of boyband JYJ , posted on his Instagram account with 1.9 million followers that he was hospitalized after coming down with the virus .
“ I have been infected with COVID-19 .
It is a result of my negligence , disregarding the cautionary words of the government and my friends , ” he said .
After several hours , the 34 - year - old Asian pop idol edited the post to say he had gone too far for “ April Fools ’ Day ” , but thanked his fans who had worried about him .
“ I do n’t think of this as an April Fool ’s prank ...
I wanted to tell you that protecting yourself is protecting the precious people around you , ” Kim said .
Topics such as “ Kim Jae - joong ” and “ Kim Jae - joong April Fools ’ ” were among the top searches on major South Korean portal Naver as debate heated up online about whether the K - Pop star really was joking or wanted to raise awareness .
“ What ’s wrong with Kim Jae - joong ?
Does he not perceive the seriousness of the situation right now ? ” wrote a Twitter user .
A KCDC official told Reuters that it was not considering any punishment for Kim .
Health authorities had earlier on Wednesday warned of any pranks related to the coronavirus .
“ Today is April 1 , or April Fools ’ Day that originated from the West .
Now is a very grave time , ” Vice Health Minister Kim Gang - lip told a briefing .
“ Again , I reiterate that we are not in the social atmosphere to accept any prank calls or misinformation . ”
Calls to Kim ’s music label C - Jes Entertainment Corp seeking comment went unanswered .
Under South Korean law , those convicted of deceiving or deluding state officials or state agencies may be jailed for up to five years or face up to 10 million won ( $ 8,124.14 ) in fines .
Kim was part of boyband TVXQ between 2003 and 2009 before leaving the group with two other members , forming the group JYJ .
FILE PHOTO :
Kim Jaejoong of South Korean pop group JYJ performs during their concert in Lima , Peru , March 11 , 2012 .
REUTERS / Pilar Olivares / File Photo
The Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( KCDC ) reported 101 new cases on Wednesday , bringing the national tally to 9,887 .
The death toll rose by eight to 169 .
South Korea has largely managed to control the epidemic and drawn worldwide praise for its rigorous testing .
The Korean pop music world is popular across Asia but has a dark underbelly .
In 2019 , several male K - pop stars and one of the industry ’s biggest producers were questioned by police over alleged illegal gambling and prostitution .
Reporting by Sangmi Cha ;
Editing by Mark Heinrich

METALS-Aluminium hits four-year lows, fears of deep recession reinforced .
2020-04-01 14:29:33 +00:00 .
* Coronavirus - knowns and unknowns :
reut.rs/2UHIgvz
* Citi 's aluminium balance estimates : reut.rs/33MBvNm ( Updates prices )
By Pratima Desai LONDON , March 30 ( Reuters ) - Aluminium prices hit four - year lows on Monday as worries about prolonged shutdowns around the world due to the coronavirus reinforced fears of a deep recession and tumbling demand for industrial metals .
Benchmark aluminium on the London Metal Exchange was down 1.1 % at $ 1,529 a tonne at 1706 GMT .
Prices of the metal used widely in transport and packaging earlier touched $ 1,526.50 , the lowest since April 2016 .
“ The aluminium surplus is going to be significantly higher than people think , ” a commodity trader said .
“ The auto industry has been hit particularly hard . ”
PROLONGED :
Metals came under further pressure after U.S. President Donald Trump extended his stay - at - home guidelines until the end of April , dropping a plan to get the economy up and running by mid - April .
“ We do n’t know how big the dent to demand will be or how long the lockdowns will go on for , ” said Julius Baer analyst Carsten Menke .
“ This is what the market is reflecting . ”
AUTOS : Vehicle sales in China , the world ’s biggest car market , tumbled in February as customers stayed at home .
Automakers are halting production at plants across Europe and the United States .
CUTBACKS :
Plummeting aluminium prices due to the impact of the pandemic on demand are unlikely to persuade producers to immediately cut output as input costs have also fallen , leaving the market with massive surpluses .
STOCKS : Market surpluses are expected to make their way to exchange warehouses , which have already seen more deliveries of aluminium .
Aluminium stocks MALSTX - TOTAL in LME - approved warehouses , at 1.15 million tonnes , have climbed nearly 20 % since March 17 .
Stocks of the metal in warehouses monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange AL - STX - SGH fell 5,922 tonnes last week to 528,072 tonnes , but that is still up from below 190,000 tonnes at the start of the year .
However , analysts expect deliveries to ShFE warehouses to rise further over coming weeks .
SHORTS :
Data from Marex Spectron shows the net speculative short position rose to 47 % of open interest or 260,000 tonnes as of last Thursday .
“ This is the largest short seen in aluminium since July 2012 , on our estimates .
That year the short peaked at 67 % of open interest , ” Marex said in a note .
DOLLAR :
Industrial metals also came under pressure from a stronger U.S. currency , which when it rises makes dollar - denominated commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies .
OTHER METALS
:
Copper was down 0.4 % at $ 4,773 , zinc fell 0.3 % to $ 1,873 , lead gained 0.2 % to $ 1,707 , tin added 0.5 % to $ 14,335 and nickel ceded 0.3 % to $ 11,315 a tonne .
( Reporting by Pratima Desai ;
Editing by Jan Harvey , Edmund Blair and Alex Richardson )

Coronavirus stokes tensions between Erdogan and Istanbul's mayor .
2020-04-01 13:37:25 +00:00 .
ISTANBUL ( Reuters ) -
The coronavirus pandemic has rekindled rivalry in Turkey between President Tayyip Erdogan and Istanbul ’s opposition mayor , with disputes over fundraising and a potential lockdown possibly imperiling a coordinated effort to combat the outbreak .
FILE PHOTO :
Workers in protective suits spray disinfectant at Grand Bazaar , known as the Covered Bazaar , to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Istanbul , Turkey , March 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Umit Bektas / File Photo
The central government in Ankara has said a money - raising campaign launched by the mayor of Istanbul , Ekrem Imamoglu , is illegal and it has threatened to prosecute those involved .
Imamoglu , seen as a possible future candidate for the presidency , launched the campaign this week with the slogan “ We will succeed together ” , seeking cash and other donations from wealthier Turks for hundreds of thousands of those in need .
Erdogan then launched a rival “ National Solidarity ” campaign and promised seven months of his salary to the cause .
Various state institutions , firms and politicians made contributions .
Turkey ’s Interior Ministry said Imamoglu ’s campaign contravened a law requiring that permission be sought from authorities before collecting money for the needy and said it would act against those responsible .
The rivalry is about much more than money - raising , though .
Imamoglu wants a lockdown in Istanbul , Turkey ’s largest city with 16 million people , to slow the spread of coronavirus , while Erdogan - who has adopted some other containment measures - is resisting such a move to cushion the economic pain .
Turkey ’s confirmed coronavirus cases jumped to 13,531 on Tuesday , making it the 10th worst affected country in the world , with 214 deaths .
Ankara has halted all international flights , limited domestic travel , closed schools , bars and cafes and suspended mass prayers and sports fixtures to counter the outbreak .
But people are still going to work as Erdogan seeks to sustain economic production and exports .
ISTANBUL AT RISK
Imamoglu said he has not discussed the pandemic with Erdogan since the first case was reported in Turkey on March 11 , though he said “ we would like to ” share information .
“ Istanbul is clearly now the fundamental center of this disease , ” Imamoglu told FOX TV .
“ If just 15 % of people go out in Istanbul , that is 2.5 million people - as much as the ( entire population of some ) cities in Europe which are lamenting their situation . ”
Imamoglu , from the main opposition Republican People ’s Party ( CHP ) , dealt Erdogan the worst electoral setback of his career when he beat a candidate from the ruling AK Party in a mayoral poll a year ago , and later logged an even bigger victory in a re - run .
Imamoglu has since repeatedly locked horns with the central government on issues such as funding and an Istanbul canal project .
Now Istanbul , with nearly a fifth of Turkey ’s population , is central to the fight against the pandemic .
On the money - raising campaign , Turkish media reports said one state bank had blocked donation accounts run by both Istanbul and the municipality of Ankara , where a CHP mayor was also elected last year , and which also launched a local fundraising campaign .
Istanbul insists it has the right to collect donations under the relevant law .
Separately , Istanbul has filed a legal complaint about what it said were orchestrated social media posts accusing the city council of allowing overcrowding on public transport that undermined the fight against the outbreak .
Reporting by Daren Butler ; Editing by Jonathan Spicer and
Gareth Jones

private payrolls post first decline in two-and-a-half years .
2020-04-01 12:56:35 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -
U.S. private payrolls dropped in March for the first time in 2 - 1/2 years , likely as businesses shut down in compliance with strict measures by authorities to contain the coronavirus pandemic , supporting economists ’ views that the longest employment boom in history probably ended last month .
FILE PHOTO :
Job seekers speak with potential employers at a City of Boston Neighborhood Career Fair on May Day in Boston , Massachusetts , U.S. , May 1 , 2017 .
REUTERS /
Brian Snyder
The ADP National Employment Report on Wednesday showed private payrolls fell by 27,000 jobs last month , the first decline since September 2017 , after advancing by an unrevised 183,000 in February .
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast private payrolls falling by 150,000 jobs in March .
The smaller - than - expected decline was because establishments were surveyed in mid - March , before many states and local governments ordered residents to stay at home unless on essential business .
Restaurants , bars and other social - gathering venues also were shuttered to slow the spread of COVID-19 , the respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus .
The United States has the highest number of confirmed COVID-19 cases , with almost 188,000 people infected .
Nearly 4,000 people in the U.S. have died from the illness , according to a Reuters tally .
The ADP report , jointly developed with Moody ’s Analytics , was published ahead of the government ’s more comprehensive employment report for March scheduled for release on Friday .
While it has a poor record predicting the private payrolls component of the government ’s employment report because of methodology differences , economists said it could offer some clues on the size of anticipated job losses in March .
Economists believe that the longest employment boom in U.S. history , which started October 2010 , came to an end in March .
According to a Reuters survey of economists , the government report on Friday is likely to show private payrolls declined by 163,000 jobs in March after increasing 228,000 in February .
Overall , nonfarm payrolls are forecast to have dropped by 100,000 jobs last month as some of the drag from business shutdowns was offset somewhat by government hiring for the 2020 Census .
The unemployment rate is forecast as rising three - tenths of a percentage point to 3.8 % in March .
The government reported last week that the number of Americans filing claims for unemployment benefits vaulted to a record 3.28 million in the week ended March 21 .
Claims for jobless benefits are expected to have scaled another record peak last week .
Data for the week ending March 28 will be published on Thursday .
Reporting by Lucia Mutikani ;
Editing by Chizu Nomiyama

Experts warned Trump off New York-New Jersey-Connecticut lockdown .
2020-04-01 12:20:00 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - Experts on the White House coronavirus task force persuaded President Donald Trump that a travel advisory was preferable to the strict quarantine he was considering for the hard - hit New York area to limit the spread of the pathogen , officials said on Sunday .
Trump had said on Saturday afternoon he might impose a ban on travel in and out of New York state and parts of New Jersey and Connecticut , the epicenter of the health crisis in the United States , drawing protests from governors including Andrew Cuomo of New York .
Hours later Trump dropped the idea , advocating a strong travel advisory instead , as was then announced by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
“ We had very intensive discussions last night at the White House with the president .
As you know , the original proposal was to consider seriously an enforceable quarantine , ” said Dr. Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infections Diseases .
“ After discussions with the president , we made it clear , and he agreed , that it would be much better to do what ’s called a strong advisory , ” Fauci said on CNN ’s “ State of the Union . ”
Fauci said enforcing a quarantine could create more difficulties for people and the same goal could be accomplished with an advisory .
Task force members unanimously decided on Saturday to go forward with the travel advisory and advised Trump - a New Yorker himself - who accepted their recommendation , U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said .
“ I think the president wanted to consider all the options .
He was obviously concerned what was going on with New York , ” Mnuchin said in an interview with “ Fox News Sunday . ”
Trump also spoke with the state governors and “ he was comfortable that people would take this advisory very seriously , and would not travel , ” Mnuchin added .
Cuomo said he supported the travel advisory and that the advice was “ nothing that we have n’t been doing ” already .
Dr. Deborah Birx , a member of the task force , said that “ we are asking every single governor and every single mayor to prepare like New York is preparing now . ”
“ No state , no metro area will be spared , ” Birx said on NBC ’s “ Meet the Press ” program .
Since the virus first appeared in the United States in January , Trump has vacillated between playing down the risks and urging Americans to take steps to slow its spread .
Officials have tamped down what Vice President Mike Pence has called Trump ’s “ aspirational ” goal of re - opening the U.S. economy by Easter on April 12 .
FILE PHOTO :
U.S. President Donald Trump arrives for the daily coronavirus response briefing with Dr. Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , and Vice President Mike Pence at the White House in Washington , U.S. , March 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Jonathan Ernst Nancy Pelosi , speaker of the Democratic - controlled House of Representatives , said Trump ’s initial downplaying of the virus ’ potential was deadly .
“ As the president fiddles , people are dying , ” Pelosi said on CNN .
For a graphic on the coronavirus in the United States , see here
Reporting by Doina Chiacu ; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Will
Dunham

RPT- pension funds may pour $400 bln into stocks, lifting virus-hit markets -JP Morgan .
2020-04-01 11:08:19 +00:00 .
( Repeats story from Tuesday with no changes to headline or text )
By Lewis Krauskopf NEW YORK , March 31 ( Reuters ) - U.S. pension funds that delayed rebalancing their portfolios are likely to pump about $ 400 billion into stocks over the next two quarters , analysts at JP Morgan said , providing a potential boost to equity markets battered by the coronavirus pandemic .
Weeks of asset price volatility may have pushed some fund managers to postpone rebalancing portfolios where equity allocations have been knocked out of whack by a sharp decline in stocks , the bank said in a note to investors .
The SP 500 fell 20 % since the start of the year , marking its worst quarter since 2008 .
“ We still expect that US pension funds will eventually rebalance within 1 - 2 quarters , ” wrote strategist Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou .
The bank said its estimate of $ 400 billion in equity buying by the funds over the next two quarters could prove conservative .
U.S. pension funds bought $ 200 billion in stocks by the first quarter of 2009 , in the aftermath of the global financial crisis — equivalent to $ 600 billion today , the bank said .
Wild market swings have presented a challenge to asset managers looking to square their portfolios against a benchmark or return to their long - maintained allocation of stocks versus bonds .
While the SP is down about 24 % from its February highs , unprecedented support from the Federal Reserve and a $ 2.2 trillion relief package from U.S. lawmakers helped stocks rally 15.5 % since March 23 .
At least one fund -- the Los Angeles City Employees ' Retirement System , which oversees some $ 15 billion -- is allowing its rebalancing to be deferred , according to a report in Pensions Investments .
here The fund did not immediately respond turn a request for comment .
Brian Reynolds , chief market strategist with Reynolds Strategy , said in a note this week a rebalancing that leads pensions to sell bonds and buy stocks “ makes no sense for pensions given the capital calls they are facing from credit and related products . ”
Some index providers , such as SP Dow Jones Indices , have delayed their quarterly rebalancing due to the market volatility , potentially complicating the picture for funds that look to track index performance .
Last week ’s rally in stocks may have helped boost some funds ’ equity allocations , making the need to increase exposure less acute , said Mike Schumacher , head of macro strategy at Wells Fargo Securities .
The bank last week had estimated that U.S. corporate pensions will need to shift about $ 40 billion from fixed income into equities to maintain allocation targets .
Its estimate now stands at $ 20 billion following last week ’s rally , Schumacher said .
At the same time , mutual funds , pensions and other asset managers rebalancing their portfolio may have stoked some of last week ’s gains .
Steven DeSanctis , an equity strategist at Jefferies , said moves from fixed income into equities “ most likely ” happened last week , adding that “ the rebalancings do n’t have to take place on the 31st . ”
Jack Janasiewicz , portfolio strategist at Natixis Investment Managers Solutions , said some of the market ’s recent gains have come from quarter - end and month - end rebalancing .
“ Once we get through the next couple of days , it ’s going to be a little bit more interesting because the question then becomes , ‘ Do we return really back to fundamentals and technicals ? ’ . ”
( Reporting by Lewis Krauskopf ; additional reporting by Sinéad Carew and Medha Singh ;
Editing by Ira Iosebashvili and Tom Brown )

Coronavirus delays leave thin slate of Democratic presidential contests in April .
2020-04-01 10:21:11 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
The coronavirus pandemic has dramatically reshaped the Democratic presidential nominating calendar , forcing many states to curtail in - person voting or delay primary contests to May or June in an attempt to limit the health risks .
FILE PHOTO :
Democratic U.S. presidential candidate and former Vice President Joe Biden speaks about responses to the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic at an event in Wilmington , Delaware , U.S. , March 12 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Carlos Barria / File Photo
As a result , April will be a lighter month than expected in the race to pick a challenger to Republican President Donald Trump for the November general election .
The outbreak has knocked Democratic front - runner Joe Biden and rival Bernie Sanders off the campaign trail in recent weeks .
Three states with contests originally scheduled on Saturday - Hawaii , Alaska and Wyoming - eliminated in - person voting and extended the deadlines for voting by mail .
Hawaii gave voters until May 22 to return ballots .
Here is a look at the presidential primaries still slated for April : APRIL 7 WISCONSIN - Despite a flurry of lawsuits seeking a delay or expanded options for registration and absentee voting , Wisconsin plans to move ahead with its primary on April 7 .
The state also will hold a general election for some state and local offices that day .
Voters have been encouraged to cast absentee ballots , but the state still will have in - person voting sites .
Democratic Governor Tony Evers asked the Republican - controlled state legislature last week to pass a bill to send an absentee ballot to every registered voter , but Republicans said that was not feasible given the short timeline .
APRIL 10
ALASKA - State Democrats canceled Saturday ’s in - person primary voting and extended the deadline to return ballots by mail .
Ballots now must be received by April 10 to be counted .
Results are expected to be released on April 11 .
APRIL 17 WYOMING - Democrats in Wyoming also canceled their original Saturday in - person primary voting and extended the deadline to return mailed ballots , which now must be received by April 17 .
The party will try to release results within 48 hours of that deadline , a spokeswoman said .
APRIL 26 PUERTO RICO - Governor Wanda Vazquez signed a resolution passed by the state legislature pushing the territory ’s Democratic primary back from March 29 to April 26 .
Under the resolution , the local party and election officials have the authority to delay the primary even more if the coronavirus crisis continues .
APRIL 28 OHIO - Ohio pushed back its March 17 primary over concerns about the coronavirus , setting a new date of April 28 for a primary conducted almost completely by mail .
Only voters who are disabled or who do not have a permanent address will be allowed to vote in person on April 28 .
Other registered voters will need to cast an absentee ballot that must be postmarked by April 27 .
Legal and voting rights groups have filed a lawsuit contending the process does not allow enough time to complete the steps needed to cast a ballot and will keep thousands of eligible voters from doing so .
Reporting by John Whitesides ;
Editing by Colleen Jenkins and Jonathan Oatis

Chinese buyers snap up oil purchases at widest discounts ever .
2020-04-01 09:22:57 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) - China has increased U.S. crude purchases with some buyers snapping up cargoes at the widest discounts ever as sellers seek to offload excess supplies in Asia , six trade sources said on Wednesday .
FILE PHOTO :
Pump jacks operate in front of a drilling rig in an oil field in Midland , Texas U.S. August 22 , 2018 .
Picture taken August 22 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Nick Oxford China started processing in March applications from its companies to waive import tariffs on U.S. energy goods as part of the Sino - U.S. Phase 1 trade deal and they have since bought liquefied natural gas ( LNG ) and liquefied petroleum gas ( LPG ) from the United States .
The world ’s largest crude importer is boosting U.S. energy imports at a time when the world is swamped with excess supply after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) and Russia failed to extend production cuts and as measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus undermined demand .
Cheap U.S. energy supplies will help China lower its import costs , but the deep discounts will add further pressure on U.S. producers to shut in production after U.S. crude futures CLc1 slumped to their lowest since 2002 .
U.S. Mars Sour crude has been sold to Chinese buyers at discounts between $ 7 and $ 9 a barrel to September ICE Brent futures for July arrival while the discounts for West Texas Intermediate crude ( WTI ) in Midland were between $ 6 and $ 7 a barrel , the sources told Reuters .
BP ( BP.L ) and Equinor ( EQNR.OL ) may have sold some of these cargoes , they said , while the buyers were not immediately known .
BP declined to comment while Equinor could not be immediately reached for comment outside office hours .
“ Only the Chinese are buying and the rest of the world are selling , ” a Singapore - based trader said , leading to some “ very aggressive offers ” for U.S. crude into that market even though the oil ’s benchmark is already at the lowest in 18 years .
In early March , independent refinery Panjin Haoye Chemical Co bought Mars crude from PetroChina in one of the first signs of Chinese refiners resuming U.S. crude purchases .
Mars and WTI were then offered at spot premiums to benchmarks .
U.S. crude is mired in deep discount as producers , forced to clear pipelines stuck with unsold oil , are now flooding the U.S. gulf coast with cheap crude .
Strong demand to ship out excess U.S. crude to China has also caused freight rates to surge , with costs jumping to $ 8-$10 per barrel , two of the sources said .
At least 9 Very Large Crude Carriers ( VLCCs ) have been booked by traders and refiners to load crude from the U.S. over the next two months for Asia , four of which could be bound for China , according to a shipbroker ’s reports .
( Graphic : Supertanker freight rates from U.S. to Singapore link : here )
Other Asian importers of U.S. crude such as India and Thailand are reducing refinery utilization rates to cope with a sudden plunge in domestic demand as their governments impose more stringent coronavirus lockdown measures .
Chinese refiners are gradually ramping up output after sharp cuts in February although they have yet to return to levels before the outbreak as demand recovery is still slow , the sources said .
“ Demand is bad globally .
Only China seems relatively OK , ” said a source at a Shandong - based refinery .
“ We are steadily increasing operation rates . ”
( GRAPHIC - U.S. crude grades plunge link : here )
Reporting By Shu Zhang and Florence Tan ; Editing by Andrew Heavens and Emelia
Sithole - Matarise

Chinese scientists seeking potential COVID-19 treatment find 'effective' antibodies .
2020-04-01 09:12:35 +00:00 .
BEIJING ( Reuters ) - A team of Chinese scientists has isolated several antibodies that it says are “ extremely effective ” at blocking the ability of the new coronavirus to enter cells , which eventually could be helpful in treating or preventing COVID-19 .
FILE PHOTO :
The ultrastructural morphology exhibited by the 2019 Novel Coronavirus ( 2019 - nCoV ) , which was identified as the cause of an outbreak of respiratory illness first detected in Wuhan , China , is seen in an illustration released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) in Atlanta , Georgia , U.S. January 29 , 2020 .
Alissa Eckert , MS ; Dan Higgins , MAM / CDC / Handout via REUTERS
There is currently no proven effective treatment for the disease , which originated in China and is spreading across the world in a pandemic that has infected more than 850,000 and killed 42,000 .
Zhang Linqi at Tsinghua University in Beijing said a drug made with antibodies like the ones his team have found could be used more effectively than the current approaches , including what he called “ borderline ” treatment such as plasma .
Plasma contains antibodies but is restricted by blood type .
In early January , Zhang ’s team and a group at the 3rd People ’s Hospital in Shenzhen began analysing antibodies from blood taken from recovered COVID-19 patients , isolating 206 monoclonal antibodies which showed what he described as a “ strong ” ability to bind with the virus ’ proteins .
They then conducted another test to see if they could actually prevent the virus from entering cells , he told Reuters in an interview .
Among the first 20 or so antibodies tested , four were able to block viral entry and of those , two were “ exceedingly good ” at doing so , Zhang said .
The team is now focused on identifying the most powerful antibodies and possibly combining them to mitigate the risk of the new coronavirus mutating .
If all goes well , interested developers could mass produce them for testing , first on animals and eventually on humans .
The group has partnered with a Sino - U.S. biotech firm , Brii Biosciences , in an effort “ to advance multiple candidates for prophylactic and therapeutic intervention ” , according to a statement by Brii .
“ The importance of antibodies has been proven in the world of medicine for decades now , ” Zhang said .
“ They can be used to treat cancer , autoimmune diseases and infectious diseases . ”
The antibodies are not a vaccine but could potentially be given to at - risk people with the aim of preventing them from contracting COVID-19 .
Normally it takes around two years for a drug even to get close to approval for use on patients , but the COVID-19 pandemic means things are moving faster , he said , with steps that would previously be taken sequentially now being done in parallel .
Zhang , who posted the findings online , hopes the antibodies can be tested on humans in six months .
If they are found to be effective in trials , actual use for treatment would take longer .
Other experts urge caution .
“ There ’s a number of steps which will now need to be followed before it could be used as a treatment for coronavirus patients , ” Hong Kong University infectious disease specialist Ben Cowling said when the finding was described to him by Reuters .
“ But it ’s really exciting to find these potential treatments , and then have a chance to test them out .
Because if we can find more candidates , then eventually we ’ll have better treatment , ” Cowling said .
Additional reporting by Roxanne Liu ;
Editing by Kim Coghill ;
Editing by Tony Munroe , Kate Kelland and Kim Coghill

Boom in Denmark's economy may be replaced by 10% contraction, central bank says .
2020-04-01 09:03:45 +00:00 .
COPENHAGEN ( Reuters ) -
A boom in Denmark ’s economy may be replaced by a contraction of as much as 10 % this year as the coronavirus outbreak hits the Nordic economy , the country ’s central bank said on Wednesday .
FILE PHOTO :
Denmark 's Central bank sign is seen on a bank 's headquarters in Copenhagen , Denmark October 22 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Nikolaj Skydsgaard
The bank , which had previously forecast 1.5 % GDP growth in 2020 , however said that strong public finances put Denmark in a favorable position to get the economy back on track .
Its latest projection is more pessimistic than that of economists at the country ’s biggest banks , as the central bank warns the export - driven economy will continue to suffer from weak demand from abroad even after Danish society reopens .
“ The boom in the Danish economy has come to an abrupt end in early 2020 , ” the central bank said in a statement .
Depending on the depth and length of the crisis , the economy may contract between 3 % and 10 % this year , with its main scenario forecasting a 5 % contraction , it said .
In comparison , economists at Danske Bank and Nordea say they expect the Danish economy to fall 2.5 % and 3 % , respectively , this year .
“ In Denmark , our starting point for getting the economy back on track when the outbreak subsides and the measures are rolled back is strong .
But it is going to hurt , before we get there , ” central bank governor Lars Rohde said .
The Nordic country has reported 90 coronavirus - related deaths , but saw the number of hospitalizations of corona patients fall on Tuesday for the first time .
The country ’s Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said on Monday that the government may gradually lift a lockdown after Easter if the number of coronavirus cases and deaths remain stable .
The government has announced economic aid packages to the businesses struggling from a lockdown that will cost the state more than 60 billion Danish crowns ( $ 8.8 billion ) .
“ The rescue packages adopted by the Danish parliament are helping to buoy up firms and employees , ” says Rohde .
Still , the central bank projects that one - third of private jobs in Denmark will be affected by the lockdown .
A recovery of the economy is highly dependent on developments abroad , the central bank warned .
“ Once the economic restrictions are phased out , more conventional fiscal stimulus will probably be required to underpin demand , ” said Rohde .
With public debt at around 33 % of GDP , much lower than the OECD average , Denmark has room to finance support for its businesses .
The central bank has significantly raised the target for government bond issuance this year and has moved forward an auction for a new 30 - year bond , which will be held later on Wednesday .
As a result of increased financing needs , the central said it expects public debt to increase to more than 40 % of GDP this year .
Reporting by Jacob Gronholt - Pedersen and Stine Jacobsen ; editing by Philippa Fletcher and
Raissa Kasolowsky

Garment exporter Bangladesh faces $6 billion hit as world retailers cancel orders .
2020-04-01 02:30:32 +00:00 .
DHAKA ( Reuters ) - Bangladesh , the second - largest apparel producer after China , is set to lose roughly $ 6 billion in export revenue this financial year amid cancellations from some of the world ’s largest brands and retailers , two major industry bodies said on Tuesday .
Bangladeshi garment workers make protective suit at a factory amid concerns over the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Dhaka , Bangladesh , March 31 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Mohammad Ponir Hossain
The two groups , which represent the vast majority of the readymade garment and knitwear manufacturers in the country , said cancellations were increasing daily amid coronavirus - driven lockdowns globally , and these risked jeopardizing millions of jobs in the poor South Asian nation .
Low wages have helped Bangladesh build its garment industry , with some 4,000 factories employing 4 million workers .
Garment exports accounted for $ 34.12 billion , or 84 % of the country ’s overall exports of $ 40.53 billion , in the fiscal year ended June 30 , 2019 .
“ We ’ve lost more than $ 3 billion due to the crisis .
All our orders until July have been cancelled or suspended , ” Mohammad Hatem , vice president of Bangladesh Knitwear Manufacturers and Exporters Association ( BKMEA ) , said .
“ Suspended orders will eventually get cancelled .
All these orders were placed for summer and it takes three months to get these delivered .
If they are not taking supplies now they will not take it when the summer is over , ” said Hatem , adding buyers had adopted a wait and watch policy , and are refraining from placing new orders .
“ Many factories will be closed if this persists , ” he added .
One industry source , who asked not to be named as the order books are confidential , said Gap , Zara , and Primark were among the brands that had cancelled orders .
Gap and Zara did not immediately respond to emails seeking comment .
Primark confirmed the step .
All Primark stores across the world are closed and the brand has been losing sales of $ 807.82 million a month , Primark said in a statement .
“ We have large quantities of existing stock in our stores , our depots and in transit , that is paid for ” , the statement said .
“ If we had not taken this action , we would be taking delivery of stock that we simply could not sell ” .
Readymade garment makers face a similar hit , warned Rubana Huq , the president of the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association ( BGMEA ) .
Huq said some 1,048 factories that were part of BGMEA had reported that orders for over 900 million garments worth $ 2.9 billion had already been cancelled or were being held up .
Huq said the order cancellations could affect some 2 million workers in the readymade garments segment .
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina recently unveiled a $ 588 million package for the country ’s crucial export sector , asking companies to put the money towards paying workers .
Bangladeshi garment workers make protective suit at a factory amid concerns over the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Dhaka , Bangladesh , March 31 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Mohammad Ponir Hossain
“ This is not enough .
The government should come up with more stimulus to save the country ’s biggest export sector , ” said Rezwan Selim , a director of BGMEA .
Siddiqur Rahman , a top exporter who supplies HM , and Walmart among others , said the situation was dire .
“ We ’re facing an unprecedented time , ” he said .
“ No one knows how long this is going to take .
We ’re trying hard not to shut down our factories .
But how long can we hold out ? ”
Reporting by Ruma Paul ; Writing and additional reporting by Euan Rocha ; additional reporting by Kanishka Singh ; Editing by Nick Macfie and
Grant McCool

Canada bolsters Main Street with wage subsidy amid coronavirus outbreak .
2020-04-01 00:28:48 +00:00 .
TORONTO / OTTAWA ( Reuters ) - Canada said on Friday it will cover 75 % of wages for small businesses and the central bank cut its key interest rate to the lowest level in a decade , as officials sought to limit layoffs and bolster an economy hard hit by the coronavirus pandemic .
A sign is pictured outside the Bank of Canada building in Ottawa , Ontario , Canada , May 23 , 2017 .
REUTERS /
Chris Wattie
The support for small and medium businesses - C$ 95 billion in direct support and deferred taxes - is aimed at stemming job losses across the country .
The government plans other measures to support the ailing energy , airline and tourism industries .
“ Our government knows you ’re really feeling the impacts of this pandemic especially with the end of the month coming up , ” Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said in his daily address .
“ So here ’s what we ’re going to do to take some of that pressure off . ”
Measures include one - year , interest - free loans , an additional $ 12.5 billion in funding via the country ’s business and export development banks , and delays in duties and tax payments to help boost cash liquidity .
The wage subsidy , raised from 10 % , is retroactive to March 15 .
Trudeau said he hoped businesses would hire back workers previously laid off .
More than half a million Canadians applied for jobless benefits last week alone .
The Canadian Chamber of Commerce said the new wage subsidy was “ a lifeline for hundreds of thousands of small businesses and millions of employees . ”
Canada reported 4,689 coronavirus cases and 53 deaths .
Earlier , the Bank of Canada unexpectedly cut its overnight interest rate by 50 basis points to 0.25 % , its lowest level since June 2010 .
It was the third cut in March .
The central bank launched what observers called its first - ever quantitative easing program , saying it would buy government and commercial debt .
“ A firefighter has never been criticized for using too much water , ” Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said after the rate cut was announced .
Separately , Canada ’s financial regulator eased its capital and liquidity requirements for banks , changed credit loss provisioning and allowed more loans to be securitized.[nL4N2BK4P9 ] “ FULL PLUNGE ” Canada ’s parliament this week approved a C$ 52 billion ( $ 37 billion ) financial package to support the economy and Canadians left without work .
While Poloz said the bank stands ready to “ take further action as required , ” he said it does not believe it would be sensible for interest rates to go lower .
The Canadian dollar strengthened to a 10 - day high .
Canada ’s main stock market resumed its slide after a three - day winning run , and domestic bond yields plunged as investors grew more nervous about the spread of the coronavirus .
Poloz , who is set to retire in June , said the asset purchase program is aimed at improving the “ functionality ” of financial markets .
He said negative interest rates are an available tool , but he did not think they were suitable .
The central bank launched the Commercial Paper Purchase Program to help alleviate strains in short - term funding markets .
It will begin with purchases of C$ 5 billion of Government of Canada securities per week , across the yield curve .
The quantitative easing “ was sorely needed and we expect that we will see probably more QE announced within the next quarter , ” said Andrew Kelvin , senior rates strategist at TD Securities .
Reporting by Fergal Smith and Kelsey Johnson ; Additional reporting by Steve Scherer in Ottawa and Nichola Saminather and Jeff Lewis in Toronto ; Writing by Amran Abocar ; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and
Leslie Adler

Don't go so soon: Some say extension for Bank of Canada chief could boost confidence amid coronavirus .
2020-03-31 23:17:08 +00:00 .
OTTAWA / TORONTO ( Reuters ) -
Extending Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz ’s tenure past the June expiration of his term would help underpin market confidence as the coronavirus pandemic hits the economy , a government official and market players said on Tuesday .
FILE PHOTO :
Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz gestures as he speaks to reporters after announcing the latest rate decision in Ottawa , Ontario , Canada January 22 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Blair Gable / File Photo
A new governor is slated to take the reins on June 3 when Poloz , 64 , ends his seven - year tenure , but Ottawa has so far not named a successor .
The recruitment process began last year and was expected to have been completed by this spring , the bank ’s board said in December .
The prime minister and finance minister , who have the final say , have been busy rolling out economic aid packages amid the outbreak .
The often folksy governor has been through the wildest month of his term in the face of the coronavirus pandemic .
The bank cut key interest rates three times by a total of 1.5 percentage points to 0.25 % and embarked on large - scale asset purchases , or quantitative easing , for the first time.[L1N2BK0P1 ]
A senior government source told Reuters that he could “ completely understand why ... ( people ) would want to see the governor stay longer during a period like this . ”
The official said such a move would support confidence but that he was unaware of discussions about an extension .
If Poloz stayed on about six months or “ until the recovery is well under way , ” it would bolster confidence , said Michael Goshko , corporate risk manager at Western Union Business Solutions .
﻿Karl Schamotta , chief market strategist at Cambridge Global Payments , said “ perception issues ... tend to dog new central bankers ” and Poloz remaining on would help avert that .
A Bank of Canada spokeswoman said the process for appointing a new governor was proceeding as planned and that extending Poloz ’s term “ would be a decision for the government . ”
The finance minister ’s office had no immediate comment .
In December , Poloz said he would step down when his mandate expired .
Asked this month whether he would reconsider , he replied : “ I have no plans to change that decision . ”
Outgoing Bank of England Governor Mark Carney , who was Poloz ’s predecessor , extended his tenure more than two years to March 2020 from its planned 2018 end as the UK completed its exit from the European Union .
Capital Economics senior Canada economist Stephen Brown said that while extending Poloz ’s term could help , he could also remain in “ some form of temporary adviser role ” to the next governor .
On March 13 , after a rate cut and as coronavirus cases started to balloon in Canada , Poloz , in a rare departure , lauded Deputy Governor Carolyn Wilkins in a news conference for her extensive experience during the 2008 - 2009 financial crisis .
Both Schamotta and Brown said Wilkins would be a good choice if Poloz does not want to remain .
“ Markets have a lot of confidence in her ability to steer the Bank , ” Schamotta said .
Other leading candidates include Tiff Macklem , a former senior deputy governor , and former Deputy Governor Jean Boivin , now head of BlackRock Investment Institute .
Reporting by Steve Scherer in Ottawa and Fergal Smith in Toronto ; Additional reporting by David Ljunggren in Ottawa ;
Editing by Amran Abocar and Peter Cooney

Don't go so soon: Some say extension for Bank of Canada chief could boost confidence amid coronavirus .
2020-03-31 21:23:56 +00:00 .
OTTAWA / TORONTO , March 31 ( Reuters ) -
Extending Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz ’s tenure past the June expiration of his term would help underpin market confidence as the coronavirus pandemic hits the economy , a government official and market players said on Tuesday .
A new governor is slated to take the reins on June 3 when Poloz , 64 , ends his seven - year tenure , but Ottawa has so far not named a successor .
The recruitment process began last year and was expected to have been completed by this spring , the bank ’s board said in December .
The prime minister and finance minister , who have the final say , have been busy rolling out economic aid packages amid the outbreak .
The often folksy governor has been through the wildest month of his term in the face of the coronavirus pandemic .
The bank cut key interest rates three times by a total of 1.5 percentage points to 0.25 % and embarked on large - scale asset purchases , or quantitative easing , for the first time .
A senior government source told Reuters that he could “ completely understand why ... ( people ) would want to see the governor stay longer during a period like this . ”
The official said such a move would support confidence but that he was unaware of discussions about an extension .
If Poloz stayed on about six months or “ until the recovery is well under way , ” it would bolster confidence , said Michael Goshko , corporate risk manager at Western Union Business Solutions .
﻿Karl Schamotta , chief market strategist at Cambridge Global Payments , said “ perception issues ... tend to dog new central bankers ” and Poloz remaining on would help avert that .
A Bank of Canada spokeswoman said the process for appointing a new governor was proceeding as planned and that extending Poloz ’s term “ would be a decision for the government . ”
The finance minister ’s office had no immediate comment .
In December , Poloz said he would step down when his mandate expired .
Asked this month whether he would reconsider , he replied : “ I have no plans to change that decision . ”
Outgoing Bank of England Governor Mark Carney , who was Poloz ’s predecessor , extended his tenure more than two years to March 2020 from its planned 2018 end as the UK completed its exit from the European Union .
Capital Economics senior Canada economist Stephen Brown said that while extending Poloz ’s term could help , he could also remain in “ some form of temporary adviser role ” to the next governor .
On March 13 , after a rate cut and as coronavirus cases started to balloon in Canada , Poloz , in a rare departure , lauded Deputy Governor Carolyn Wilkins in a news conference for her extensive experience during the 2008 - 2009 financial crisis .
Both Schamotta and Brown said Wilkins would be a good choice if Poloz does not want to remain .
“ Markets have a lot of confidence in her ability to steer the Bank , ” Schamotta said .
Other leading candidates include Tiff Macklem , a former senior deputy governor , and former Deputy Governor Jean Boivin , now head of BlackRock Investment Institute .
( Reporting by Steve Scherer in Ottawa and Fergal Smith in Toronto ; Additional reporting by David Ljunggren in Ottawa ;
Editing by Amran Abocar and Peter Cooney )

Canada coronavirus deaths jump by 35%, Quebec says equipment running low .
2020-03-31 19:55:15 +00:00 .
OTTAWA / MONTREAL
( Reuters ) -
Canada ’s death toll from the coronavirus outbreak jumped by 35 % to 89 in less than a day , officials said on Tuesday , and the major province of Quebec said it was running low on key medical equipment .
FILE PHOTO :
A woman retrieves a bag left at the front door of Pinecrest Nursing Home after several residents died and dozens of staff were sickened due to coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Bobcaygeon , Ontario , Canada March 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Carlos Osorio Ottawa said it would spend C$ 2 billion to help buy supplies amid complaints from some doctors and nurses about shortages of personal protection gear .
“ The situation is going to get worse before it gets better .
That is the unfortunate truth , ” Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland told a daily briefing .
By 9 a.m. eastern time ( 1300 GMT , ) those diagnosed with the coronavirus had risen by 15 % to 7,708 .
The respective figures at 1200 ET on Monday were 66 deaths and 6,671 positive diagnoses .
Chief public health officer
Theresa Tam said she was particularly concerned the virus was spreading to enclosed settings where vulnerable people live , such as seniors ’ residences , prisons and aboriginal communities .
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Ottawa would invest $ 2 billion to support testing and to purchase ventilators and protective personal equipment such as masks , face shields , gowns and hand sanitizer .
In Quebec , the second - most - populous of the 10 provinces , Premier Francois Legault said “ my biggest concern right now is for the medical supplies .
Currently , for some equipment , we have only ( enough ) for three to seven days ” .
New shipments should arrive “ in the next few days , ” he told a daily briefing .
Ottawa has signed agreements with three Canadian companies to produce the needed supplies , with five other deals pending , said Trudeau .
“ We know that the demand for critical equipment and supplies will grow in the coming weeks , so we need a sustainable , stable supply , ” he told reporters .
“ That means making them at home and we ’re optimistic that they will be available in the coming weeks . ”
Procurement Minister Anita Anand said Ottawa had already bought more than 157 million surgical masks .
Boosting supplies of medical equipment is part of Ottawa ’s response to an outbreak that has forced the closure of many businesses and schools .
Ontario Premier Doug Ford said schools in what is the most populous province would be closed until at least May 1 .
“ I ’m prepared to extend these closures even further , ” he added .
Manitoba said it would close schools for the rest of school year .
Ottawa has pledged financial help for people and employers hit by the crisis .
Finance Minister Bill Morneau will provide details on Wednesday , officials said .
Additional reporting by Kelsey Johnson in Ottawa and Amran Abocar and Moira Warburton in Toronto ; Editing by Dan Grebler ;
Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Dan Grebler

Brazil's Braskem eyes drawing down of US$1bn revolver: sources .
2020-03-31 18:55:19 +00:00 .
NEW YORK , March 31 ( LPC ) - Brazilian petrochemicals company Braskem is evaluating whether to draw down on its US$ 1bn revolving credit facility , according to a banking source and others .
The move to withdraw a portion or its entire credit facility comes as companies shore up their cash balances to withstand the economic slowdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic .
Concerns over the respiratory virus have sent financial markets into a frenzy over the last month as many businesses have closed their doors and ceased operations on government orders , while people around the world are self - isolating to limit the spread of the virus .
Braskem is evaluating the option to withdraw its dollar - denominated credit facility , but no decision was final yet , the company said in an email communication with Refinitiv LPC .
The Brazilian company has also formed a crisis committee to establish procedures for the health of its staff and the continuity of operations , Braskem said in a statement to its shareholders on March 20 .
If Braskem were to draw down , it would join a host of other companies globally that have drawn from their credit lines in recent weeks as they too cope with the devastating impact of the coronavirus .
Mexican peer Orbia , formerly known as Mexichem , drew down US$ 1bn from its US$ 1.5bn credit line , the company said in a press release on March 27 .
Earlier this month , Brazil ’s state - owned oil producer Petróleo Brasileiro also said it has drawn on US$ 8bn in dollar - denominated revolving loans and disbursed 3.5bn Brazilian reais in local currency credit lines .
Brazilian miner Vale has also borrowed US$ 5bn from two facilities , while Mexican baker Grupo Bimbo and Mexican media company Televisa have also tapped existing revolving credit lines , the companies have said in press releases this month .
Braskem raised its US$ 1bn revolving credit facility in May 2018 .
Braskem ’s five - year facility pays 125bp over Libor .
If the company draws on more than 33 % of the revolver , but less than 66 % , the margin will increase by 15bp , but if it withdraws more than 66 % of the facility , then the margin will increase by 30bp , sources said .
ABN Amro , BNP Paribas , Credit Agricole , Citigroup , Santander and SMBC arranged the transaction .
São Paulo , Brazil - headquartered Braskem is one of the largest petrochemicals producers in Latin America .
(
Reporting by Aaron Weinman Editing by Michelle Sierra . )

South Africa small businesses pray government aid eases coronavirus lockdown .
2020-03-31 18:48:49 +00:00 .
JOHANNESBURG ( Reuters ) - Marius Delarey ’s spacious restaurant in an upmarket Johannesburg suburb thrived on bringing up to 250 people together at a time to share food , booze and lively conversation .
A man walks past a poster covering the side of a building ahead of a 21 day lockdown aimed at limiting the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Cape Town , South Africa , March 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Mike Hutchings
“ The business we had was all about social contact .
Social distancing is the opposite of what we offered , ” he said , until the coronavirus emptied La Boqueria out and prompted South Africa to impose a three - week lockdown starting on Thursday .
President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a raft of measures on Monday aimed at helping small businesses hurt by the lockdown , many of them already reeling from drops in tourist numbers .
The country has 709 confirmed coronavirus cases so far .
Governments across the world are offering similar measures aimed at mitigating the economic fallout .
But for South Africa - already suffering recession , power shortages , unemployment hovering around 30 percent , and with an economy heavily dependent on now non - existent tourism - the impact is brutal .
“ On Saturday , we had 227 customers ; on Monday , we had two .
Coronavirus has shut us down , ” Delarey said , next to tables loaded up with wine he hopes to sell before pulling down the shutters on Thursday .
Ramaphosa ’s measures include : unemployment benefit for the temporarily redundant , tax breaks , debt relief and aid packages for the hospitality sector .
THE PARTY ’S OVER
“ I plan to apply for as many as possible , but ... there ’s no point borrowing money if you do n’t have a business to keep going , ” Delarey said .
“ I would be delusional to think I ’ll have a party here in May with 250 people . ”
He plans to morph into a smaller operation with delivery and a drive - through , but that will hardly match the turnover of up to 30 million rand ( $ 1.7 million ) a year the restaurant was making .
He ’s doubtful he will rehire all 80 of his staff .
For mobile coffee vender Siyathembo Ralo , 37 , whose weekly turnover used to be 2,500 rand but has nearly halved in the past week , the lockdown will mean relocating his van to a friend ’s guesthouse , where at least he might still make the odd sale .
He has four staff between two such vans , and wo n’t be able to continue paying them .
He has barely enough savings for two weeks for himself , after which he ’ll need help from friends .
“ The president said something about ... government measures , but I do n’t know what the channels are to access aid , ” Ralo said , echoing concerns of other business owners who fear requests will be bogged down in red tape .
Nicolas Panayiotou , 43 , will default on his rent for his three wine shops starting next week , send 11 staff on paid leave and hope his bank will be lenient about his overdraft .
“ I ’m applying just to be in the queue ( but ) ...
I doubt I ’ll get anything , ” he said , while shoppers made a last - minute dash for booze before hunkering down .
“ It does n’t sound like there ’s enough money .
The kind of relief you ’re gon na get is about 200 bucks ( rand ) at the most , but I need 290,000 ( rand ) just to pay my expenses . ”
Editing by Catherine Evans

UPDATE 1- House, Senate leaders split on need for more coronavirus legislation .
2020-03-31 17:43:03 +00:00 .
( Recasts , adds Pelosi comments , byline )
By Susan Heavey
WASHINGTON , March 31 ( Reuters ) -
The nation ’s top two congressional leaders were divided on Tuesday over the need for more legislation to deal with the fallout from the coronavirus crisis after three earlier bills were approved , including a $ 2 trillion economic relief measure .
U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi said lawmakers needed to take up a fourth coronavirus - related bill to focus on recovery in the aftermath of the outbreak , while Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell urged a “ wait - and - see ” approach .
“ I hope that in this next bill that we will be able to address the concerns of our state and local governments .
That is absolutely essential .
We need to do more , ” Pelosi , a Democrat , told MSNBC in an interview .
McConnell , speaking on conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt ’s syndicated program , said policymakers should instead wait to see how the crisis unfolded in coming days and weeks before jumping on further legislation .
Congress has already passed three bills this month tackling the coronavirus as the fast - spreading and potentially fatal disease hit the nation : a $ 8.3 billion package on testing and research , a $ 100 billion bill addressing paid sick days , unemployment benefits and food aid ; and a roughly $ 2 trillion economic relief package that passed last week .
“ We ’ll have to wait and see , ” the Republican Senate leader said , adding that lawmakers first need to see the effect of the latest recovery measure aimed at shoring up the economic freefall in the wake of massive closures aimed at stemming the outbreak .
“ Let ’s see how things are going and respond accordingly , ” he said , adding that lawmakers were not scheduled to return to session until April 20 .
“ I ’m not going to allow this to be an opportunity for the Democrats to achieve unrelated policy items that they would not otherwise be able to pass . ”
House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy on Sunday also said he did not know whether more legislation is needed yet , even as Pelosi said the Democratic - controlled House planned to move forward .
( Reporting by Susan Heavey and Doina Chiacu , editing by Louise Heavens and Jonathan Oatis )

Canada, China talking to keep canola seed exports moving .
2020-03-31 17:33:08 +00:00 .
OTTAWA / BEIJING ( Reuters ) - Canada and China are in talks to ensure limited Canadian canola seed exports continue even as a year - long trade dispute remained .
FILE PHOTO :
A deer feeds in a western Canadian canola field which are in full bloom this week before it will be harvested later this summer in rural Alberta , Canada July 23 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Todd Korol / File Photo
Beijing blocked canola seed shipments from Richardson International and Viterra Inc last year , citing pest concerns .
China ’s move came after Canada ’s detention of a top Huawei Technologies Co Ltd executive .
Canadian canola seed shipments from other companies to China have continued but were in jeopardy due to the March 31 expiration of an agreed standard on the amount of foreign material allowed per shipment .
Officials from China ’s customs administration and Canada ’s farm ministry spoke on Tuesday , two sources said .
No contracts between Canadian canola exporters and Chinese buyers have been signed in the past two to three weeks , a Canadian government source said on Tuesday , as industry participants waited to hear whether a new standard could be reached .
“ We ’ve seen promising signs of positive relations on specific issues , ” Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told reporters on Tuesday , asked about progress on canola trade with China .
“ We ’re going to continue working to try and ensure that our farmers , our manufacturers , our exporters , continue to have access to the markets around the world even in this difficult time . ”
While Chinese sources have suggested that all canola seed imports would resume , a Canadian government source said that no agreement had been reached to allow the top two exporters back into the market .
Discussions between Canadian and Chinese officials continue , the source said .
Chinese authorities have indicated Canadian canola seed shipments may continue to be shipped provided the amount of foreign material is limited to less than 1 % of the shipment , the source said .
Richardson and Viterra continue to be blocked from exporting canola seed to China .
Richardson spokesman Jean - Marc Ruest said the company had no details about recent Canada - China discussions .
Viterra spokesman Peter Flengeris could not immediately comment .
Canola , like soybeans , is crushed into protein - rich meal for animal feed and Canada is the world ’s top supplier .
ICE canola futures edged higher on Tuesday .
China ’s General Administration of Customs was unavailable for comment after office hours .
Canadian Agriculture Minister Marie - Claude Bibeau did not immediately comment .
China ’s oilseed processors have struggled with the lowest soybean stocks since at least 2010 , as the coronavirus pandemic disrupts the global supply chain of farm produce .
“ The market is worried about oilseed supplies .
And there is no energy left for any ( trade ) fights now , ” said another source with a major agriculture products importer .
Reporting by Kelsey Johnson in Ottawa , Hallie Gu and Dominique Patton ; Additional reporting by Rod Nickel in Winnipeg ; Editing by Jason Neely , Bernadette Baum and Alison Williams

YOUR MONEY: How to apply past financial lessons to today’s coronavirus crisis .
2020-03-31 17:20:48 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
When the world feels like it is ending , it can be comforting to look to history and see that such global convulsions have happened before and the earth kept on turning .
A person walks by rows of stores closed during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Manhattan , New York City , U.S. , March 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Andrew Kelly
For help during the coronavirus crisis , Reuters turned to Carmen Reinhart , an economist and professor at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University .
She is the coauthor , along with Kenneth Rogoff , of the book “ This Time Is Different : Eight Centuries of Financial Folly . ”
Q : What is your take on what we are seeing so far ?
A :
This did n’t start as a financial crisis , but it ’s certainly evolving into one .
You ca n’t have a standstill in economic activity and not expect it to have serious balance - sheet consequences .
My expectation is that we will see a big increase in bankruptcies at the household level , at the corporate level and at the sovereign level .
Q :
Many people are looking to the Spanish Flu of 1918 for clues - what can we learn from how that pandemic played out ?
A : We do n’t really have historical antecedents for a lockdown of this scale .
We ’ve had a lot of pandemics before , from time immemorial to the last major one in 1918 .
But that was in World War One , and as is common with wartime economies , the big thing was production .
Real GDP growth at the time was 9 % , so we ca n’t really look to that period for lessons in economic effects .
Q : What are you worried about , that others are n’t realizing ?
A : I worry a great deal about social unrest .
You saw the number of jobless claims .
The longer this lasts , the hardest - hit households will have less and less ability to cope .
A prolonged scenario when people do n’t have jobs , and things are shut down , is worrisome in terms of what it does to the human psyche .
We have n’t really had this experience before .
Q : Since you have looked at hundreds of financial crises , any lessons that are helpful now ?
A :
This pandemic is going to leave countries , corporations and households with a lot of debt .
There have been other episodes with a lot of debt , such as the end of World War Two .
What experience tells us is that you have to take an out - of - the - box approach , and think seriously about writeoffs - at the household , corporate and sovereign levels .
We have to be open to a greater role for the restructuring of public and private debts .
That ’s the healthy way to go .
Q : How do you see this crisis developing from here ?
A : Even in a good scenario , I do n’t think we ’re going to return to business as usual anytime soon .
Think of global trade patterns and global supply chains , with everyone relying so heavily on other countries .
And remember in 1918 , influenza continued to circle the globe and kill people until 1920 .
So I would not be expecting a pre - coronavirus environment like we had before .
This is going to depress global growth for some time .
Q : Let ’s leave on a positive note - anything encouraging you see out of all this ?
A :
The policy response is an upbeat note - night and day compared to the 1930s , for example .
And in terms of efforts to limit human costs , we are seeing broad consensus for distancing and quarantines , which is fundamental to how long this will last .
It ’s hard to measure that in economic terms , but that ’s at the heart of global response , and that ’s encouraging .
Writing by Chris Taylor ; Editing by Beth Pinsker and Matthew Lewis ; Follow us @ReutersMoney or here

TSX rises as oil surge boosts energy stocks .
2020-03-31 17:16:05 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Canada ’s main stock index rose 2 % on Tuesday , as a jump in oil prices boosted energy stocks after the United States and Russia agreed to talks aimed at stabilizing the industry .
FILE PHOTO :
The Art Deco facade of the original Toronto Stock Exchange building is seen on Bay Street in Toronto , Ontario , Canada January 23 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Chris Helgren
*
All of the index ’s 11 major sectors were higher , led by the energy sector which jumped 12.2 % .
U.S. crude prices were up 3.8 % a barrel , while Brent crude added 0.9 % .
[ O / R ]
* A tumble in crude prices have resulted in a nearly 49 % plunge in Canadian energy stocks this month , making it the worst monthly decline ever .
*
At 9:43 a.m. ET ( 1343 GMT ) , the Toronto Stock Exchange ’s SP / TSX Composite index was up 309.73 points , or 2.38 % , at 13,348.23 .
* Canada ’s main index is down 18 % so far in March , set to post its worst month since August 1998 .
*
The materials sector , which includes precious and base metals miners , added 1.7 % , the least among the major sub indexes .
* A 2 % fall in gold prices kept a lid on the sector ’s gains as the dollar strengthened and strong Chinese economic data boosted risk appetite .
[ GOL/ ] * Also lifting the mood , Ottawa said it will waive ground lease rents for airports until December 2020 , providing relief worth C$ 331.4 million ( $ 233.4 million ) to help the air transport sector deal with the coronavirus outbreak .
* The news helped shares of Air Canada rise 1 % .
* On the TSX , 207 issues were higher , while 21 issues declined for a 9.86 - to-1 ratio favouring gainers , with 30.51 million shares traded .
* The largest percentage gainers on the TSX were shares of oil producer Cenovus Energy , which jumped 17 % , followed by bigger rival Canadian Natural Resources , which rose 16.8 % .
* Cannabis Cronos Group Inc fell 8.8 % , the most on the TSX .
*
The most heavily traded shares by volume were those of StageZero Life Sciences , Cenovus and Suncor Energy .
* The TSX posted one new 52 - week high and one new low .
*
Across all Canadian issues there were one new 52 - week high and two new lows , with total volume of 54.34 million shares .
Reporting by Shreyashi Sanyal in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Amy Caren Daniel

Fear of virus won't save mom in college admissions scandal from prison .
2020-03-31 17:07:44 +00:00 .
BOSTON , March 31 ( Reuters ) -
A California mother was sentenced on Tuesday to seven months in prison for paying $ 450,000 to help her daughters gain an illicit edge in the college admissions process , despite her lawyers ’ arguments that she faced exposure to the coronavirus if she were incarcerated .
Federal prosecutors in Boston say Elizabeth Henriquez and her financier husband , Manuel Henriquez , sought to rig their two daughters ’ college entrance exam results and secure the oldest one ’s admission to Georgetown University as a fake tennis recruit .
Prosecutors argued she deserved 26 months in prison after she and her husband , who founded specialty finance lender Hercules Capital Inc , in October pleaded guilty and admitted they were among several wealthy parents who took part in a vast college admissions cheating and fraud scheme .
The Atherton , California , resident appeared before the judge by video , a social distancing step undertaken by the court to deter the spread of COVID-19 , which is caused by the novel coronavirus and has killed more than 3,000 people in the United States .
Aaron Katz , her lawyer , argued for home confinement , saying “ it is entirely conceivable federal prison will not be a safe place for Elizabeth until there is a COVID-19 vaccine . ”
But U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton said while he could delay when she ultimately reports to prison , Henriquez deserved a seven - month term and a $ 200,000 fine for committing an “ inexcusable crime of greed , hubris and flaunting of personal wealth . ”
Henriquez is among 53 people charged with participating in a scheme in which parents conspired with a California college admissions consultant to use bribery and other forms of fraud to secure the admission of their children to top schools .
William “ Rick ” Singer , the consultant , pleaded guilty in March 2019 to charges he facilitated cheating on college entrance exams and helped bribe university sports coaches to present his clients ’ children as fake athletic recruits .
The 36 parents charged since March 2019 include “ Desperate Housewives ” actress Felicity Huffman , who was sentenced in September to 14 days in prison , and “ Full House ” star Lori Loughlin , who is fighting the charges .
Prosecutors said the Henriquezes beginning in 2015 paid Singer nearly $ 50,000 to have an associate proctor the SAT and ACT college entrance exams for their daughters and feed them answers .
Prosecutors said Elizabeth Henriquez also paid $ 400,000 to have Singer arrange to have a Georgetown tennis coach he was bribing designate her oldest daughter as an athletic recruit .
( Reporting by Nate Raymond in Boston Editing by Alistair Bell )

U.S. crude rises after 18-year lows prompt U.S.-Russia talks plan .
2020-03-31 16:09:07 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) - Oil prices steadied on Tuesday , with the U.S. crude benchmark climbing off 18 - year lows after U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin agreed to talks on stabilising energy markets .
FILE PHOTO :
A sticker reads crude oil on the side of a storage tank in the Permian Basin in Mentone , Loving County , Texas , U.S. November 22 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Angus Mordant / File Photo
However , gains were capped as global demand continues to be slammed by travel restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic .
May Brent crude futures was 4 cents lower at $ 22.72 a barrel by 11:05 a.m. ET ( 1505 GMT ) after closing on Monday at $ 22.76 , its lowest finish since November 2002 .
It hit a session high of $ 23.87 .
The more - active June contract traded 18 cents lower at $ 26.24 a barrel .
U.S. crude was up 55 cents at $ 20.64 after settling in the previous session at $ 20.09 , its lowest since February 2002 .
It traded as high as $ 21.89 a barrel earlier in the session .
Oil markets have faced a double whammy from the coronavirus outbreak and a race to win market share between Saudi Arabia and Russia after OPEC and other producers failed this month to agree on deeper supply cuts to support oil prices .
Trump and Putin agreed in a phone call to have their top energy officials discuss stabilising oil markets , the Kremlin said on Monday .
Although the futures market is seeing a recovery , physical cargoes are selling in some regions at single digits , with sellers offering hefty discounts .
With a plunge in prices that has knocked about 60 % off oil prices this year , a commissioner with the Texas state energy regulator renewed a call for restrictions on crude production because of a national supply glut .
However , U.S. crude producers are likely facing cuts in April anyway as there are no buyers in physical markets for crude in the Permian , the biggest shale basin the country , or the U.S. Gulf Coast , said Scott Shelton , energy specialist at United ICAP .
“ It ’s just a matter of time before we see the producers be forced by the crude gatherers to cut as one can not ‘ gather ’ crude when there are no buyers or tanks to store it in , ” he said .
In a sign of how well the market is supplied , the front - month Brent futures contract for May is trading at a discount of $ 13.95 a barrel to the November contract , the widest contango spread ever seen , ahead of the May contract ’s expiry .
A contango market implies traders expect oil to be higher in the future , encouraging them to store oil now to sell later .
Saudi Arabia , de facto leader of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) , plans to boost its oil exports to 10.6 million barrels per day ( bpd ) from May on lower domestic consumption , a Saudi Energy Ministry official said .
Global oil refiners , meanwhile , have cut their throughput because of the slump in demand for transportation fuel , with European refineries reducing output by at least 1.3 million bpd , sources told Reuters .
Exxon Mobil Corp closed a small crude distillation unit at its 502,500 bpd Baton Rouge refinery in Louisiana because of low demand , sources said .
The chief economist for global commodities trader Trafigura said that oil demand could fall in the coming weeks by as much as 30 % from consumption at the end of last year .
A Reuters survey of 40 analysts forecast Brent crude prices would average $ 38.76 a barrel in 2020 , 36 % lower than the $ 60.63 forecast in a February survey .
Additional reporting by Ahmad Ghaddar in London , Jane Chung in Seoul and Sonali Paul in Melbourne ; Editing by Marguerita Choy and
David Goodman

Exclusive: Coronavirus stalls Chinese approvals of new Brazil meat exports .
2020-03-31 15:41:55 +00:00 .
BRASILIA ( Reuters ) - China has not approved any new Brazilian meat plants for export this year because of the coronavirus pandemic , an official at Brazil ’s Agriculture Ministry told Reuters , adding that all approvals were on hold until the crisis eases .
FILE PHOTO : FILE PHOTO :
Employees prepare salted meat which will be dried and then packed at a plant of JBS S.A , the world 's largest beef producer , in Santana de Parnaiba , Brazil December 19 , 2017 .
REUTERS / Paulo Whitaker / File Photo
The freeze comes despite the fact that Brazil and China implemented a new system in January intended to speed up approvals , said Orlando Leite Ribeiro , international affairs secretary at Brazil ’s Agriculture Ministry .
The ministry tried to get in touch with Chinese counterparts early this year to begin using the system , but at that time , as the coronavirus threat emerged , China ’s General Administration of Customs ( GACC ) was not working normally , Ribeiro said .
Now that Brazil has been hit by the outbreak , many public employees are working from home to avoid spreading the novel coronavirus and associated COVID-19 disease , preventing the necessary meetings to gain new plant approvals , he said .
There is still good will on both sides , he added .
“ What is happening is a case of temporary neglect .
China was affected first by COVID-19 and when China started to get back to normal , Brazil was affected by COVID-19 , ” Ribeiro said in a phone interview late on Monday .
New approvals are n’t likely until Brazil ’s outbreak eases , which could take months , he said .
China is the largest buyer of Brazilian beef , pork and chicken .
Meat sales had been expected to continue rising steadily amid the Asian swine fever , a disease that decimated China ’s hog population and sent it looking abroad for pork and other alternative proteins .
Dozens of meatpacking facilities approved last year have already gained export permissions and are not affected , Ribeiro said .
Brazil announced Chinese approvals for 25 new plants in September and 13 more in November .
The new system agreed in December would allow for China to conduct “ virtual inspections ” of plants for export via remote video link , replacing the previous need for a Chinese delegation to visit plants in person .
It was first tested in September .
“ The inspection by video conference was a total success .
The Brazilians liked it ; the Chinese liked it , ” Ribeiro said .
But the system still requires many people on the Brazilian side from various departments , as well as translators , to be in a room together at the Brazilian ministry - and a similar gathering on the Chinese side - along with a team on the ground at the meat inspection plant .
“ We ca n’t mobilize a team to do a video conference ...
it ’s a lot of people together in various places , which we ’re avoiding at the moment ” to limit the spread of the disease , Ribeiro said .
He said it was impossible to say what impact the coronavirus would have on the global market for Brazilian meat and if China would keep buying more .
“ There ’s a change in all patterns in consumption .
So in truth , I ca n’t tell you how Chinese or global demand for meat will be , ” Ribeiro said .
Reporting by Jake Spring ; Additional reporting by Ana Mano ; Editing by Brad Haynes and
Bernadette Baum

OPEC March oil output rises from 2009 low after supply pact collapse .
2020-03-31 15:17:56 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - OPEC oil output rose in March from the lowest in more than a decade last month as Saudi Arabia boosted output following the collapse of an OPEC - led suply pact , offsetting further declines in Libya , Iran and Venezuela .
On average , the 13 - member Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries pumped 27.93 million barrels per day ( bpd ) last month , according to the survey , up 90,000 bpd from February ’s figure , which was unrevised .
A supply pact by OPEC and other producers , known as OPEC+ , collapsed on March 6 , hastening a drop in prices that were already falling due to the coronavirus outbreak .
Brent crude has plunged below $ 22 a barrel , the lowest since 2002 .
While Saudi Arabia plans to boost supply following the OPEC+ deal collapse , OPEC output has not changed much yet because export deals for March production were already in place , said Petro - Logistics , a firm that tracks oil shipments .
“ OPEC supply in March is broadly unchanged versus February , hovering at record lows , ” Petro - Logistics chief executive Daniel Gerber told Reuters .
“ Allocations for March barrels were locked in by the time the OPEC+ agreement collapsed on March 6 . ”
“ This may be the calm before the storm as many OPEC countries have announced a maximisation of their supply and exports in April .
Early signs show export rates from Saudi Arabia , UAE and Kuwait starting to ramp up . ”
OPEC , Russia and other producers had a deal to curb output by 1.7 million bpd until March 31 to support prices .
The 10 OPEC members bound by the agreement still exceeded the pledged cuts in March , the survey found .
Compliance was 106 % in March , a decline from 128 % in February .
Production next month is expected to rise further .
Saudi Arabia is reducing refinery operations in April to boost export potential and , an official said , plans to ship 10.6 million bpd in May.
IRAN AND CORONAVIRUS
February ’s output was the lowest by OPEC since at least 2009 , the year in which the group implemented its biggest - ever supply cut due to the financial crisis , excluding membership changes since then , according to Reuters survey records .
Among those pumping more , Saudi Arabia boosted output by 100,000 bpd in March , even though some buyers asked to cancel cargoes because of reduced demand , industry sources said .
The UAE is also ramping up production , sources said , while Nigeria and Iraq , both laggards in making cuts in 2019 , also raised output slightly due to higher exports .
Venezuela , Iran and Libya all reduced output in March .
All three were exempt from voluntary OPEC curbs because of U.S. sanctions or internal issues limiting production .
Iran is also seeing a drop in gasoline use because of the coronavirus outbreak , said analyst Sara Vakhshouri of SVB Energy International , compounding the impact of sanctions on supply .
“ Iran ’s oil production has dropped to below 2 million bpd , ” she said .
The survey average put Iranian output at 2.02 million bpd , down 70,000 bpd .
Venezuela , contending with both U.S. sanctions and a long - term decline in output , posted another drop in production and exports in March .
Oil output in Libya has plunged since Jan. 18 due to a blockade of ports and fields by groups loyal to eastern - based commander Khalifa Haftar .
Production fell by another 45,000 bpd in March , the survey found .
The Reuters survey aims to track supply to the market and is based on shipping data provided by external sources , Refinitiv Eikon flows data and information provided by sources at oil companies , OPEC and consultants .

Japan, IOC set July 23 next year for start of delayed Olympics .
2020-03-31 15:06:35 +00:00 .
Toshiro Muto , Tokyo 2020 Organizing Committee Chief Executive Officer , attends a news conference after Tokyo 2020 Executive Board Meeting , during the outbreak of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Tokyo , Japan March 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Issei Kato / Pool TOKYO ( Reuters ) -
The postponed Olympic Games will now begin on July 23 next year and run until Aug. 8 , the head of the Tokyo 2020 organising committee said on Monday , as the coronavirus pandemic made it impossible to plan for them properly this year .
The Games were postponed last week and the delay is the first in the 124 - year history of the modern Olympics .
The postponement represents a huge blow for Japan , which invested $ 13 billion in the run - up to the event , and raised $ 3 billion from domestic sponsors .
Yoshiro Mori , the head of the Tokyo 2020 organizing committee , confirmed the new dates after he made the decision with the International Olympic Committee .
Mori said the Paralympic Games would run from Aug. 24 - Sep. 5 .
Earlier on Monday , the Games ’ chief executive , Toshiro Muto , said the committee was moving “ in the direction ” of honouring tickets bought for the 2020 Games at the rescheduled event , or providing refunds in case of scheduling changes .
“ We want to honour the hopes of all those who purchased the tickets amid high demand , ” Muto told a news conference .
But it was too early to say what the additional costs of the delay would be , Muto said .
The IOC and Japanese government succumbed to intense pressure from athletes and sporting bodies around the world last Tuesday by agreeing to push back the Games because of the coronavirus pandemic .
Writing by Aaron Sheldrick ;
Editing by Angus MacSwan

Coronavirus concerns delay restart of Ford's North American production .
2020-03-31 13:42:22 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Ford Motor Co ( F.N ) said on Tuesday it was postponing its plan to restart production at its North America plants due to safety concerns for its workers amid the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO : FILE PHOTO :
The front grill logo of a Ford pickup truck is seen in this photo taken in Carlsbad , California November 5 , 2014 REUTERS /
Mike Blake / File Photo
To generate cash , the No . 2 U.S. automaker had said last week it was poised to restart production at some plants in North America as early as April 6 , bringing back such profitable vehicles as its top - selling F-150 full - sized pickup , the Transit commercial van and SUVs .
But on Tuesday , Ford said that although it had been aiming to resume production at several key U.S. plants on April 14 , it would now do so at dates to be announced later on .
“ The health and safety of our workforce , dealers , customers , partners and communities remains our highest priority , ” Kumar Galhotra , president of Ford ’s North American operations , said in a statement .
Still , the automaker will open a plant in Ypsilanti , Michigan , during the week of April 20 , that will make ventilators to treat patients afflicted by the coronavirus .
Michigan , which is home to a large portion of the U.S. automotive industry , has also become a hot spot in the pandemic .
Schools and all but essential businesses have been ordered closed through at least April 13 to slow the spread of the coronavirus .
Galhotra said Ford was working closely with the United Auto Workers union to “ develop additional health and safety procedures ” to help keep hourly workers healthy .
“ Today ’s decision by Ford is the right decision for our members , their families and our nation , ” UAW President Rory Gamble said in a statement .
Rival Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV
( FCHA.MI ) ( FCAU.N ) said last week it plans to resume production in North America on April 13 .
A spokeswoman for FCA said the automaker was “ continuing to monitor the situation . ”
General Motors Co ( GM.N ) has shuttered its plants indefinitely and has not provided a date for vehicle production to restart .
“ Once it is safe to resume production , we will do so , ” a GM spokesman said .
Additional reporting by Sanjana Shivdas in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Bernadette Baum

UPDATE 2-China to resume imports of Canadian canola - sources .
2020-03-31 13:17:21 +00:00 .
( Adds quotes , further detail )
By Hallie Gu and Dominique Patton BEIJING , March 31 ( Reuters ) - China has agreed to allow imports of Canadian canola to resume , two sources briefed on the matter told Reuters on Tuesday , lifting a ban in place since March 2019 that had halted $ 2 billion worth of trade .
The agreement was reached during a call held by China ’s customs administration and Canada ’s farm ministry on Tuesday , said the sources who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter .
China ’s General Administration of Customs could not be reached for comment after office hours .
The office of Canadian Agriculture Minister Marie - Claude Bibeau did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
The move to allow imports to resume comes as China ’s oilseed processors struggle with the lowest soybean stocks since at least 2010 , and as the coronavirus pandemic disrupts the global supply chain of farm produce .
Canola , like soybeans , is crushed into protein - rich meal for animal feed and Canada is the world ’s top supplier .
Beijing had said its ban last year was due to quality issues but it came amid tense relations with Ottawa , triggered by Canada ’s detention of a top Huawei Technologies Co Ltd executive .
The two sides also agreed that the percentage of foreign materials in the canola shipments must be below 1 % , the sources added .
“ The market is worried about oilseed supplies .
And there is no energy left for any ( trade ) fights now , ” said another source with a major agriculture products importer .
In 2018 , Canada exported C$ 2.7 billion ( $ 2.1 billion ) worth of canola seed to China , a market that accounted for approximately 40 % of all Canadian canola exports .
Canadian canola inventories surged to an all - time high in 2019 following Beijing ’s ban .
Chinese traders engulfed in on - and - off trade friction over the past two years between China and its major grain suppliers were hesitant about resuming canola imports , however .
“ Even though they had a conference call , I am not sure whether the trade channel has really become smooth again .
We will need to try and see , ” said another source with an importer in southern China .
A standard on foreign materials had been in place prior to the ban but not strictly implemented in the past , buyers said .
“ If the standard on foreign materials is implemented strictly , it will surely take longer to offload the canola cargoes that arrive , ” said a manager with a Chinese crusher that used to crush Canadian rapeseed before the ban .
He added that he believed it would be hard for shipments to meet the standard unless Canada significantly tightened up inspections .
Reporting by Hallie Gu and Dominique Patton ; Additional reporting by Kelsey Johnson in Ottawa ; Editing by Jason Neely ,
Bernadette Baum and Alison Williams

Cricket-South Africa won't reduce player salaries for 2020-21 season .
2020-03-31 12:11:40 +00:00 .
CAPE TOWN , March 31 ( Reuters ) - Player salaries for the South African 2020 - 21 cricket season are safe , but the long - term effects of the coronavirus pandemic could mean the country ’s cricketers earn less in the future , Cricket South Africa Acting CEO Jacques Faul has said .
A number of sports teams and organisations around the world have either reduced the salaries of players and officials , or cut their staff numbers in the wake of the virus outbreak that has crippled global sport .
Faul said CSA , who contract players on a yearly basis , will not follow suit , but believed the longer - term prospects for player income is of great concern .
“ We have budgeted for the amount .
It is a centralised system and both the national team and franchise players are budgeted for , ” Faul told local media on Tuesday .
“ At this stage we will have enough capacity to see us through the season .
“ But in the long term , even if we cover this season , we will have to look at what the situation is going to be after that and the financial impact it has .
“ In our situation , I can not see any player getting less money this season , but going forward I can see a situation where players might have to receive less . ”
Faul added they are currently undertaking scenario planning based on the impact of no cricket for the next three , six or nine months .
“ How much will be available to pay players ( next season ) ?
We need to see the total effect of Covid-19 .
And of course , players right now miss out on appearance fees and win bonuses , ” he said .
“ If we have series postponed and they are played at a later date , then they can make it up .
If not , that is lost income . ”
Faul conceded that in a worst - case scenario , where international cricket can not be played for two or three seasons , the game could become a recreational sport in South Africa .
“ You must evaluate every resource the available now , and how far will it stretch .
If we run out of capacity to run cricket in the country then it becomes a recreational sport , ” he said .
“ It has got us all nervous and it ( the coronavirus ) is a big concern .
But health is the most important thing .
Sport feeds a lot of people , but we must be honest that the world has even bigger challenges at the moment . ”
South Africa ’s next scheduled international assignment is a test and limited overs tour of the West Indies starting in late July .
( Reporting By Nick Said Editing by Christian Radnedge )

With bird sacrifices and chants, Cuba's Santeria seek protection from coronavirus .
2020-03-31 12:02:30 +00:00 .
HAVANA ( Reuters ) -
The family of Emilia Montoya , 79 , sacrificed four white doves and two roosters , chanted in the African language Yoruba and pounded a wooden staff rhythmically on the floor in a ceremony to protect Montoya from coronavirus .
Emilia Montoya , 79 , a follower of the Afro - Cuban religion Santeria , sits before a ceremony amid concerns about the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Havana , Cuba , March 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Alexandre Meneghini
The small gathering in her Havana home appealed to their ancestors and honored Inle , the deity of health in Santeria , a ritual - filled Afro - Cuban religion .
Montoya does not have the virus though Cuba has so far reported 170 confirmed cases .
“ We are calling these blessings upon her to keep her healthy , ” said her nephew Henry Rodriguez , 40 , leading the ceremony .
“ But this ceremony is n’t just for us ; it ’s also for global health . ”
The risk of spreading the virus has ruled out the large ceremonies of drumming and dancing that characterize Santeria , a religion that fuses Yoruba beliefs and traditions , brought to Cuba by African slaves , with elements of Catholicism .
But devotees - of which there are millions in the Caribbean island nation - are turning to their pantheons of Yoruba deities called Orishas for strength in intimate family ceremonies or individual rituals at home .
“ Every day when I get up , I stand on the porch , look up to the sky and ask God to ... send the epidemic away , ” said Montoya , who in normal times runs a weekend school teaching Cubans to get in touch with their divine gifts like the ability to hear or see spirits .
“ Then I light a candle and pray to my Orishas for the whole world , ” she said , her thick , twisted Afro locks wound up into a white scarf , as mandated for such Santeria ceremonies .
RITUALS
VIA SOCIAL MEDIA
Some Santeria devotees are also coordinating , largely via social media , small simultaneous rituals performed in self - isolation at home .
These are also being done in other Latin American countries like Venezuela where the religion has gained a following .
The rollout of mobile internet in Cuba , where most homes do not have online connections , is enabling spiritual communion in times of self isolation .
On March 22 , for example , Santeria devotees heard they should light two candles at a precise hour and pray to the Orishas for their protection .
“ May Obatala ( one of the main Orishas ) protect us from the pandemic , ” wrote Magdalena Barrera Valdes on a Facebook group for Santeria practitioners worldwide with 44,000 followers , posting a photo of her candles , on which 76 people commented “ ashe ” meaning “ may it manifest ” in Yoruba .
Later that day , some Santeria priests , known as babalawos , were said to be imploring Iku , the spirit of death , to not take any more victims .
Devotees warned one another to cover their heads to protect themselves as Iku swept across earth during and after the ceremony .
“ Religion is mainly about faith , ” said Rodriguez , “ and we want to give people hope . ”
Reporting by Sarah Marsh ;
Editing by Cynthia Osterman

China LPG options make Dalian debut, as futures prices hit limit .
2020-03-31 10:46:09 +00:00 .
* LPG futures contract rallies and hits trading limit * Exchange says timely provision of new hedging tools
* Coronavirus has deeply disrupted oil markets
By Emily Chow
SHANGHAI , March 31 ( Reuters ) - China began trading liquefied petroleum gas ( LPG ) options on the Dalian Commodity Exchange on Tuesday , only a day after the debut of an LPG futures contract , as the bourse experiments with simultaneous launches .
Until now , China ’s commodities exchanges have listed option contracts on products months or even years after the futures contracts started trading .
The LPG futures contract for November delivery fell 9 % on Monday , its first day of trade , but rallied 7 % on Tuesday to settle at 2,513 yuan per tonne .
During the session , it hit its trading limit as the global oil price staged a recovery from a deep sell - off triggered by the impact of the coranvirus crisis on demand .
The most - active November 2020 options contract , with call options , or options to buy , had an exercise price of 2,650 yuan ( $ 373.67 ) per tonne .
It closed with a call option at 336.80 yuan per tonne and put option , or right to sell , at 500 yuan per tonne .
“ Due to ( LPG futures reaching ) the daily trading limit , high trading volumes of call options are normal , ” said Wang Dongli , a derivatives analyst at Orient Securities in Shanghai .
“ I do n’t think there is a particularly bearish or bullish direction , ” he said , noting put options with a 2,100 yuan exercise price had also attracted hefty volumes .
That contract closed with a call option of 588.40 yuan and a put option of 202 yuan .
The derivatives for LPG , a refined oil product used as a fuel in vehicles and for cooking , are the third type of oil and gas product to be listed in China .
They follow the launch of crude oil futures on the Shanghai International Energy Exchange in March 2018 and fuel oil futures on the Shanghai Futures Exchange in July 2018 .
The Dalian exchange has said this week ’s listings are timely in providing new hedging tools for LPG companies given the widespread market impact of the coronavirus outbreak .
Oil markets have been particularly hard hit because of a battle for market share between Saudi Arabia and Russia that has increased supply while demand has been destroyed by lockdowns to try to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus .
Refiners have been cutting back activity as storage fills and profit margins shrink , which could eventually boost prices of some refined products such as LPG .
$ 1 = 7.0919 Chinese yuan renminbi Reporting by Emily Chow ;
editing by Barbara Lewis

UPDATE 1-FTSE 100 inches higher yet closes in on worst quarter since 1987 .
2020-03-31 09:52:58 +00:00 .
( For a live blog on European stocks , type LIVE/ in an Eikon news window )
* Analysts warn on rebound despite upbeat China data
* Melrose tops FTSE 100 on cost - cutting plan
* Aston Martin slips on furloughing some employees ( Adds comment , updates prices )
By Devik Jain and Sruthi Shankar March 31 ( Reuters ) - UK shares rose on Tuesday as a recovery in oil prices and a surprise expansion in Chinese factory activity revived confidence in equity markets amid a deep selloff this month that set the FTSE 100 on course for its worst quarter since 1987 .
The index rose 2.1 % , with turnaround specialist Melrose Industries surging 19 % after it secured a debt covenant waiver and said it was cutting expenses in an effort to ride out the coronavirus crisis .
Cigarette maker Imperial Brands rose 11 % as it secured a new 3.5 billion euro ( $ 3.85 billion ) credit line and said it was not seeing any major hit to business from the outbreak .
The latest data from China showed factory activity unexpectedly expanded in March from a collapse the month before , but analysts caution that a durable near - term recovery is far from assured .
“ What we ’re really looking at the China data is to see if it ’s an indicator of how quickly Europe and U.S. can get back to work potentially after their lockdown , ” said UBS strategist Kiran Ganesh .
“ If the lockdown ends in May , which is what we ’re broadly pricing in , then we may see a similar path of what we ’ve seen in China . ”
The FTSE 100 has recovered about 15 % since hitting a near nine - year low on March 16 , but remains nearly 25 % below its January record high as entire countries enforced stay - at - home orders due to the outbreak , halting business activity .
An index of midcap stocks is on course to record its worst quarterly decline ever , although sentiment has stabilised towards the end of March after unprecedented stimulus by policymakers to cushion the pandemic ’s economic blow .
Oil prices steadied following a near collapse on Monday , as U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin agreed to discuss stabilising energy markets , boosting shares in Royal Dutch Shell Plc and BP Plc .
Travel stocks have also been hit hard in the past month in the face of an evaporation in passengers , with the wider travel and leisure index losing 45 % in the first quarter .
Supermarket chains Tesco and Sainsbury ’s have held up as industry data showed British consumers spent an additional 1.9 billion pounds ( $ 2.4 billion ) on groceries in the four weeks to March 21 .
Luxury carmaker Aston Martin fell 8.7 % after saying it is furloughing some employees as it handles the fallout from the outbreak , which has closed its car factories .
( Reporting by Devik Jain and Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Bernard Orr )

Shellshocked Spain reports record 832 new coronavirus deaths .
2020-03-31 06:12:26 +00:00 .
MADRID ( Reuters ) - Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez on Saturday announced stricter lockdown measures that will force all non - essential workers to stay at home for the next two weeks , as the government reported 832 new coronavirus deaths overnight .
The latest moves to combat the virus in Spain , the second - worst affected country in Europe after Italy , will be approved at a cabinet meeting on Sunday and will last from March 30 until April 9 .
“ This decision allows us to reduce the number of infected people to a much greater extent , ” Sanchez said in a televised address to the nation .
Over the next few days Spain would be making a “ powerful collective effort ” , he said , adding that the new measures would have the effect of extending the Easter holidays .
Workers would receive their usual salaries but would have to make up lost hours at a later date , he said .
Sanchez also used the address to urge the European Union to act and called for a “ united economic and social strategy ” .
He urged the EU to issue bonds , saying “ we have to mutualise the debt , issue reconstruction bonds to deal with coronavirus ” .
“ We do not understand why the eurozone , which shares a currency , does not share fiscal policy , ” he said .
As Spain prepared to enter its third week of lockdown , hospitals and morgues struggled under the pressure and infections rose to 72,248 from 64,059 the day before .
An unused public building known as “ the doughnut ” was the latest to be turned into a makeshift morgue after a city ice rink last week , Spanish media reported .
Health emergency chief Fernando Simon said the epidemic appeared to be reaching its peak in some areas , but the nation was short of intensive care unit beds .
“ We continue to have a major problem with ICU saturation , ” said Simon .
A delivery of 1.2 million masks bought by the Ministry of Transport from China for health , transport and postal workers arrived at Madrid airport , the government said .
FILE PHOTO :
An angel of a statue with a protective face mask is seen as the outbreak of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , in Barcelona , Spain March 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Nacho Doce
In Barcelona , delivery workers with masks took free meals to health workers on Friday evening as part of the Delivery 4 Heroes initiative , in which six companies have joined forces to send free meals daily to up to 200 people .
“ It is not only food , but a gift of emotion and encouragement to continue and to think that everything that is being done is really worth it , ” Dr Luis Miguel Martin , who was given dinner at Barcelona ’s Hospital del Mar , told Reuters .
Schools , bars , restaurants and shops selling non - essential items have been shut since March 14 and most of the population is housebound as Spain tries to curb the virus .
Reporting by Jordi Rubio , Luis Felipe Castilleja , Silvio Castellanos , Clara - Laeila Laudette , Elena Rodriguez ; Writing by Jessica Jones ; Editing by Jason Neely , Andrew Cawthorne and Giles Elgood

Oil rebounds from 18-year lows after , Russia agree to talks .
2020-03-31 04:22:41 +00:00 .
SEOUL ( Reuters ) - Oil recovered ground on Tuesday after U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin agreed to talks to stabilize energy markets , with benchmarks climbing off 18 - year lows hit as the coronavirus outbreak cut fuel demand worldwide .
General view of oil tanks and the ConocoPhillips ' Bayway Refinery in Linden , New Jersey , U.S. , March 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Mike Segar Brent crude LCOc1 was up by 43 cents , or 1.9 % , at $ 23.19 a barrel by 0406 GMT , after closing on Monday at $ 22.76 , its lowest finish since November 2002 .
U.S. crude Clc1 was up by $ 1.16 , or 5.8 % , at $ 21.26 a barrel , after settling in the earlier session at $ 20.09 , lowest since February 2002 .
Oil markets have faced a double whammy from the coronavirus outbreak and a price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia after OPEC and other producers failed to agree on deeper cuts to support oil prices in early March .
Trump and Putin agreed during a phone call to have their top energy officials discuss stabilizing oil markets , the Kremlin said on Monday .
“ Oil prices are clawing back from a near 18 - year low on hopes that oversupply concerns may finally see some relief , ” said Edward Moya , senior market analyst at broker OANDA .
“ Much of the focus has fallen on a key call between the Presidents of the United States and Russia . ”
With a plunge in prices that has knocked around 60 % off oil this year , a commissioner with the Texas state energy regulator renewed his call for restrictions on crude production because of the national supply glut .
In a sign of how well the market is supplied , the front - month Brent futures contract for May , is currently at a discount of $ 13.95 per barrel to the November contract , the widest contango spread ever seen .
A contango market implies traders expect oil to be higher in the future , prompting them to store oil for later sales .
Saudi Arabia , de facto leader of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) , plans to boost its oil exports to 10.6 million barrels per day ( bpd ) from May on lower domestic consumption , a Saudi energy ministry official said .
Global oil refiners , meanwhile , have cut their throughput because of the slump in demand for transportation fuel , with European refineries slashing output by at least 1.3 million bpd , sources told Reuters .
UBS estimated global oil demand to fall by 1.2 million bpd , or 1.2 % , over the whole of 2020 , weighed down by the coronavirus pandemic , the Swiss bank said in a note .
Others , including the chief economist for global commodities trader Trafigura , have said that oil demand could fall as much as 30 % from the end of last year over coming weeks .
Reporting by Jane Chung ; Additional reporting by Sonali Paul in Melbourne ; Editing by Richard Pullin and Tom Hogue

Airbnb to pay out $250 million to hosts to help ease coronavirus cancellation pain .
2020-03-30 23:51:04 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - U.S. home rental firm Airbnb said on Monday it was allocating $ 250 million to help offset losses by hosts around the world whose guests have canceled bookings in the face of the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
Airbnb logo is seen in front of diplayed coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in this illustration taken March 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Dado Ruvic / Illustration / File Photo
The aid , which will pay hosts 25 % of their normal cancellation fees , is being offered globally except for China , the company said in a letter sent to hosts by Chief Executive Brian Chesky .
The payments apply to the cancellation of reservations with check - in dates between March 14 and May 31 .
Because hosts can choose different cancellation policies - some requiring a penalty payment , with others allowing free cancellation up to a certain date before check - in - not all canceled reservations will qualify .
Airbnb had earlier announced that guests would receive a full refund for the cancellation of reservations made on or before March 14 for check - in between March 14 and April 14 , which angered many hosts .
Airbnb also said that hosts could cancel reservations without a charge .
Airbnb said it is funding the program for hosts itself and will begin to issue the payments in April .
Airbnb ’s revenue in 2019 exceeded $ 4.8 billion , up 35 % on the year , and it has $ 3 billion in cash , a source told Reuters last week .
The company said in September that it planned to list its shares in 2020 , and so far has not changed that position .
Airbnb also said it is creating a $ 10 million relief fund for its Superhosts - so - named for meeting certain requirements including good ratings - who rent out their own home and need help paying their rent or mortgage , and some Experience hosts who charge for sharing an experience like food tours .
Hosts can apply for grants for up to $ 5,000 .
That fund started with Airbnb employee donations of $ 1 million and the company ’s three founders are personally contributing the rest , it said .
Airbnb also said it worked to secure support for hosts in the recent U.S. stimulus bill that will allow some hosts to benefit from small - business grants , loans and unemployment assistance .
In a video message to hosts on Monday , Chesky said he was confident Airbnb would come back strong after the coronavirus pandemic was over .
He added that about half of the stays booked on Airbnb were for periods longer than a month .
Reporting by Jane Lanhee Lee ;
Editing by Greg Mitchell , Leslie Adler and Rosalba O'Brien

Czechs extend restrictions on restaurants, movement until April 11 .
2020-03-30 19:24:17 +00:00 .
Women wearing face masks walk on the Vltava river bank as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues in Prague , Czech Republic , March 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
David W Cerny PRAGUE ( Reuters ) -
The Czech government said on Monday it would order most shops and restaurants to stay closed and restrict people ’s movement until April 11 , extending by 10 days measures it has put in place to curb the spread of the coronavirus .
The measures , in place since March 14 and previously set to end on April 1 , still allow grocery stores , pharmacies , drugstores , gas stations and some other places to operate , while travelling to work or to visit family is also permitted .
The Czech Republic has been relatively quick in Europe to enforce drastic measures to limit the spread of the virus .
It reported its first infections on March 1 and as of Monday evening it had recorded 2,942 cases and 23 deaths .
Prime Minister Andrej Babis said the restrictions would now be in place for the same duration as the state of emergency , a legal framework currently due to expire on April 12 , although both would need to be continued to tackle the disease .
“ We have the state of emergency until April 12 .
We will ask parliament on April 7 to extend it , ” he said , adding that store closures and restrictions on movement would then be prolonged as well , although there may be room for some easing .
“ We hope that the epidemic will develop in such a way that after Easter , it will be possible to loosen some measures . ”
The state will now also begin requiring Czechs and foreigners arriving in the country to observe a 14 - day period of quarantine regardless of where they have entered from , the Interior Ministry said .
The Czech Republic has already also shut borders to most international travel and ordered people moving around cities and towns to wear masks or face fines .
Reporting by Robert Muller ;
Editing by Michael Kahn , Jonathan Oatis and Hugh Lawson

Red Bull's Marko suggested 'corona camp' for F1 drivers .
2020-03-30 17:35:28 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Red Bull ’s motorsport head Helmut Marko suggested his Formula One and junior drivers should catch the coronavirus while racing is on hold so they would be protected from sickness later in the year .
Helmut Marko arrives for the opening of the " Red Bull Ring " motorsport race circuit in Spielberg , May 14 , 2011 .
REUTERS /
Lisi Niesner / Files
The 76 - year - old Austrian , a former grand prix racer who is now the energy drink company ’s head of driver development , made the startling revelation in an interview on Sunday with broadcaster ORF .
Marko added that the idea had “ not been well received ” by Red Bull management .
“ We have four Formula One drivers and eight or 10 juniors , ” he said .
“ The idea was that we would organise a camp to mentally and physically bridge the dead time and that would be the ideal time for the infection to come .
“ They are all strong young men in good health .
That way they would be prepared whenever the action starts . ”
Nearly 738,500 people have been infected across the world and about 35,000 have died so far , according to a Reuters tally .
Red Bull own two Formula One teams with Dutch 22 - year - old Max Verstappen and Thai racer Alexander Albon in the main one and Frenchman Pierre Gasly along with Russian Daniil Kvyat at Italy - based AlphaTauri .
The Formula One season is currently stalled after the cancellation of the March 15 Australian season - opener in Melbourne due to the spreading pandemic .
Six races have also been postponed and the showcase Monaco Grand Prix in May cancelled .
Formula One has said it hopes to get the season started some time in the European summer with a reduced calendar of 15 - 18 races .
That may still be optimistic , even if the sport races into the New Year as has been suggested .
Marko , whose Formula One career ended when he was blinded in his left eye by a loose stone thrown up during the 1972 French Grand Prix , said European countries had to emerge from lockdown before any racing could happen .
Austria is due to host a grand prix at the Red Bull Ring on July 5 but that too remains uncertain .
Formula One teams , commercial rights holders Liberty Media and the governing FIA have agreed to save money by using the same cars next year , postponing a raft of major technical changes that had been due in 2021 .
“ Liberty expects a loss of $ 200 - 300 m in revenue , and this is also transferred to the teams in a quota .
That is why we decided to take these austerity measures to make up for this loss of revenue , ” said Marko .
Reporting by Alan Baldwin in London ,
editing by Christian Radnedge

U.S. crude dips below $20 as lockdowns wipe out demand .
2020-03-30 12:33:34 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Oil prices fell sharply on Monday , with U.S. crude briefly dropping below $ 20 and Brent hitting its lowest level in 18 years , on heightened fears that the global coronavirus shutdown could last months and demand for fuel could decline further .
FILE PHOTO :
The sun sets behind a crude oil pump jack on a drill pad in the Permian Basin in Loving County , Texas , U.S. November 24 , 2019 .
Picture taken November 24 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Angus Mordant / File Photo Brent crude , the international benchmark for oil prices , was down $ 2.08 , or 8.3 % , at $ 22.85 by 1127 GMT , after earlier dropping to $ 22.58 , the lowest since November 2002 .
U.S. West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) crude fell $ 1.11 , or 5.2 % , to $ 20.40 .
Earlier in the session , WTI fell as low as $ 19.92 .
The price of oil is now so low that it is becoming unprofitable for many oil firms to remain active , analysts said , and higher cost producers will have no choice but to shut production , especially since storage capacities are almost full .
“ Global oil demand is evaporating on the back of COVID-19 - related travel restrictions and social distancing measures , ” said UBS oil analyst Giovanni Staunovo .
“ In the near term , oil prices may need to trade lower into the cash cost curve to trigger production shut - ins to start to prevent tank tops to be reached , ” he added .
Rystad Energy ’s head of oil markets , Bjornar Tonhaugen , said : “ The oil market supply chains are broken due to the unbelievably large losses in oil demand , forcing all available alternatives of supply chain adjustments to take place during April and May , ” including cutting refinery runs and increasing onshore or offshore storage .
Supertanker freight rates are rising for a second time this month as traders rush to secure ships for storage .
Goldman Sachs analysts said demand from commuters and airlines , which account for about 16 million barrels per day of global consumption , may never return to previous levels .
The contango spread between May and November Brent crude futures reached its widest ever at $ 13.45 a barrel , while the six - month spread for U.S. crude broadened to minus $ 12.85 a barrel , the widest discount since February 2009 .
Prompt prices are lower than those in future months in a contango market , encouraging traders to store oil for future sales .
“ This game of attrition is likely to drag prices even lower and even a price of $ 10 per barrel is no longer unimaginable , ” said Hussein Sayed , analyst at FXTM .
Central banks and governments continued with attempts to support their economies but analysts questioned the effectiveness of their measures .
JP Morgan predicts global GDP will contract at a 10.5 % annualised rate in the first half of the year .
[ MKTS / GLOB ]
On Monday , central banks in China and Singapore aggressively eased monetary policy , while Malaysia ’s government unveiled a $ 58 billion stimulus package over the weekend .
Collapsing oil prices have left some African producers facing lost revenue when they most need it to tackle coronavirus .
Sovereign wealth funds from oil - producing countries mainly in the Middle East and Africa are also on course to dump up to $ 225 billion in equities .
Reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin ; Additional reporting by Sonali Paul in Melbourne , Yuka Obayashi in Tokyo , David Gaffen in New York and Florence Tan in Singapore ;
Editing by Louise Heavens and Edmund Blair

Russia weighs nationwide coronavirus lockdown after Moscow acts .
2020-03-30 10:30:08 +00:00 .
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) - Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin asked regional governors to consider introducing a partial lockdown to halt the spread of coronavirus after Russia on Monday recorded its biggest one - day rise in cases for the sixth day in a row .
FILE PHOTO - Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin chairs a meeting on the development of the electronics industry and additional measures to support the industry in Moscow , Russia March 25 , 2020 .
Sputnik / Dmitry Astakhov / Pool via REUTERS Russia ’s official nationwide tally of coronavirus cases rose by 302 on Monday , taking the total to 1,836 .
Nine people across Russia have died , the authorities say .
Authorities in Moscow have ordered residents to stay at home from Monday , their toughest move yet to slow the spread of the virus after the number of official cases in the Russian capital passed the 1,000 mark .
Mishustin said he thought the measures now needed to be rolled out nationwide .
“ I ask the leaders of ( Russia ’s regions ) to pay attention to ( Moscow ’s ) experience and to work out the possibility of introducing such measures in their regions , ” he said .
Some regions , like Russia ’s Arctic region of Murmansk , which shares a border with Finland and Norway , have already acted , while most others in the world ’s largest country by territory have yet to do so .
Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin , a close ally of President Vladimir Putin , said 20 % of residents were ignoring his order to self - isolate , but that he hoped an IT system would be operational by the end of the week that would allow authorities to control the movement of people .
Muscovites are only allowed to go out to buy food or medicines at their nearest shop , get urgent medical treatment , walk the dog , or take out the bins , under the new rules .
“ This may now seem to some of you like some kind of game , a kind of Hollywood thriller .
This is no game ... , ” Dmitry Medvedev , deputy chairman of the Security Council , said in a video address .
“ Unfortunately , what is happening now is a real threat to all of us and to all of human civilisation , ” said Medvedev , who was prime minister until earlier this year .
Russia has so far got off more lightly than many European countries , but some doctors have voiced scepticism about the accuracy of its figures given what they say has been the patchy nature and quality of testing , allegations that the authorities deny .
According to a survey by the Levada Center , only 16 % of Russians fully trust official information about the coronavirus , while 24 % said they did not trust it at all .

Australia shares post record daily gain after stimulus package .
2020-03-30 07:33:59 +00:00 .
* Healthcare , financial stocks lift Australian benchmark
* Ansell ends 25 % higher after co reiterates FY outlook
* China cuts interest rate on reverse repurchase agreements ( Updates to close )
By Nikhil Subba
March 30 ( Reuters ) -
Australian shares rose 7 % on Monday in their biggest single - day jump in history , as a stimulus package to invigorate the coronavirus - hit economy and a slowdown in the rate of daily infections spurred buying .
The SP / ASX 200 index closed 339 points higher at 5,181.40 , recovering from a steep 5.3 % fall on Friday .
Prime Minister Scott Morrison committed A$ 130 billion ( $ 79.86 billion ) to help save jobs as shockwaves from the virus pandemic rip through the economy .
Australians were asked on Sunday to further isolate themselves from the public to keep the virus from spreading even as authorities said the rate of daily infections has halved in recent days .
“ The COVID-19 data is actually starting to look better with the number of infections declining for four days in a row now , ” said Marc Kennis , principal of Pitt Street Research .
“ So , that may have led to some optimism for certain sectors , like the banks , as it could mean that the lockdown may not be as long as some people had expected . ”
Meanwhile , the Chinese central bank unexpectedly lowered the interest rate on reverse repurchase agreements to 2.20 % from 2.40 % , as authorities stepped up easing measures to relieve pressure on the economy that has been hit hard by the epidemic .
Australia depends heavily on China ’s economic health as the Asian nation is its largest trade partner .
Healthcare stocks were the day ’s best performers , with the sub - index gaining 11.4 % in its biggest jump since June 22 , 2001 .
Ansell Ltd settled nearly 25 % higher for its biggest daily gain since October 1987 , after the glove maker reiterated its full - year outlook , citing strong demand for its products .
Industry heavyweight CSL advanced about 12 % , marking its best day since Jan. 19 , 2017 .
“ The health care sector remains the best growth story in the current environment , ” said Mathan Somasundaram , a market portfolio strategist at Blue Ocean Equities , adding that it had been the only industry to outperform its U.S. counterpart over the last five years .
Financial stocks closed 8.8 % higher , their best since March 17 , with all the “ Big Four ” banks adding more than 7 % .
The mining sector finished 3.8 % higher , with BHP Group rising 4 % while Rio Tinto climbed 2 % .
New Zealand ’s benchmark SP / NZX 50 index rose about 1.1 % to 9,661.19 , with Contact Energy gaining 3.1 % , while Synlait Milk ended 4.2 % higher .
The Reserve Bank of New Zealand said it would deploy more tools to provide additional liquidity to the companies and support market functioning .
( Reporting by Nikhil Subba in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Subhranshu Sahu )

Oil futures slide as pandemic darkens demand outlook .
2020-03-30 07:32:04 +00:00 .
MELBOURNE / TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Crude oil benchmarks fell sharply on Monday , with Brent hitting its lowest since November 2002 , as fears grew over the coronavirus pandemic eroding demand and the Saudi Arabia - Russia price war threatened to overload the market .
FILE PHOTO :
The sun sets behind a crude oil pump jack on a drill pad in the Permian Basin in Loving County , Texas , U.S. November 24 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Angus Mordant / File Photo Brent futures LCOc1 were down 5.8 % , or $ 1.45 , to $ 23.48 a barrel as of 0623 GMT , after earlier dropping to $ 23.03 , the lowest since November 2002 .
U.S. West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) crude futures CLc1 fell as far as $ 19.92 , near an 18 - year low hit earlier this month , and was last trading down 3.8 % , or $ 0.82 , at $ 20.69 a barrel .
“ Central banks have been easing ( monetary policy ) and governments have been offering stimulus packages , but they are only supportive measures , not radical treatments , ” said Satoru Yoshida , a commodity analyst with Rakuten Securities .
“ Until we see signs of the pandemic ending , oil prices will stay under presser and could dive below $ 20 a barrel , ” he said .
The next support level for WTI crude could be around $ 17 , Yoshida said , a level last touched in 2001 .
Asian shares also slipped on Monday despite the all - out efforts of the central banks to bolster the markets with rate cuts and asset - buying campaigns .
The oil markets have been slammed by demand destruction caused by the coronavirus pandemic and the Saudi Arabia - Russia price war that is flooding markets with extra supply .
An official from Saudi Arabia ’s energy ministry said on Friday the kingdom was not in talks with Russia to balance oil markets despite rising pressure from Washington to stop the rout that has cut prices by more than 60 % this year .
With world demand now forecast to plunge 15 million or 20 million barrels per day , a 20 % drop from last year , analysts say massive production cuts will be needed beyond just the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) .
“ OPEC , Saudi Arabia and Russia could mend their differences , but there ’s not that much OPEC could do ....
The demand shock from COVID-19 is just too big , ” said Lachlan Shaw , National Australia Bank ’s head of commodities research .
The contango spread between May and November Brent crude futures reached its widest ever at $ 13.45 a barrel , while the six - month spread for U.S. crude broadened to minus $ 12.85 a barrel , the widest discount since February 2009 .
Prompt prices are lower than those in future months in a contango market , encouraging traders to store oil for future sales .
The coronavirus pandemic , which has killed about 32,000 people and sickened more than 660,000 worldwide , has brought the worldwide aviation industry to a standstill and put roughly 3 billion people on lockdown .
“ From a physical point of view , it ’s really bleak , ” Shaw said .
“ You need a strong signal to tell suppliers this is a pretty diabolical situation . ”
( GRAPHIC - Widest contango for Brent , WTI crude oil futures in years link : here )
Reporting by Sonali Paul in Melbourne and Yuka Obayashi in Tokyo ; Additional reporting by David Gaffen in New York and Florence Tan in Singapore ; Editing by Shri Navaratnam and
Tom Hogue

South Korea's emergency exercise in December facilitated coronavirus testing, containment .
2020-03-30 04:18:56 +00:00 .
SEOUL ( Reuters ) -
A South Korean tabletop exercise on emergency responses to a fictional mysterious outbreak led directly to tools the country deployed less than a month later to manage the arrival and spread of the coronavirus , one of the experts involved said .
FILE PHOTO :
South Korean soldiers in protective gear make their way while they disinfect buildings downtown , following the rise in confirmed cases of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Daegu , South Korea , March 15 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Kim Kyung - Hoon / File Photo
According to an undisclosed government document seen by Reuters , on Dec. 17 two dozen leading South Korean infectious diseases specialists tackled a worrying scenario : a South Korean family contracts pneumonia after a trip to China , where cases of an unidentified disease had arisen .
The hypothetical disease quickly spreads among the colleagues of the family members and medical workers who treated them .
In response , the team of experts at the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( KCDC ) developed an algorithm to find the pathogen and its origin , as well as testing techniques .
Those measures were mobilized in real life when a first suspected coronavirus patient appeared in South Korea on Jan. 20 , the document said .
“ Looking back over the past 20 years , humans were most tormented by either influenza or coronaviruses , and we ’re relatively doing well on influenza but had been worried about the possibility of the outbreak of a novel coronavirus , ” said Lee Sang - won , one of the KCDC experts who led the drill .
“ It was blind luck - we were speechless to see the scenario become reality , ” Lee added .
“ But the exercise helped us save much time developing testing methodology and identifying cases . ”
The exercise played a key role in slowing what became Asia ’s largest coronavirus epidemic outside China using aggressive and sustained testing .
After a big early outbreak , South Korea rolled out widespread testing within days , launching an extensive program to test people who do not have symptoms but may be able to infect others , isolate confirmed patients and trace their contacts .
The country won praise for containing the spread of the disease with comparatively little disruption .
It has 9,583 cases and 158 deaths , and managed to bring the daily tally of new infections to about 100 or fewer for the past three weeks .
The KCDC team , which Lee said was formed in 2018 as a sort of study group , had wanted to boost large - scale DNA analysis capabilities after the organization earned much public criticism for its handling of a 2015 outbreak of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome .
Soon after the drill , the coronavirus epidemic emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan , prompting the experts to begin considering that it might be a novel coronavirus .
Even before Beijing officially declared it , the South Korean team was ready to begin testing , Lee said .
The document also showed the KCDC established testing methodology on Jan. 4 , three days before Chinese authorities identified the virus , and started testing suspected cases on Jan. 9 .
By early March , South Korea was capable of running as many as 20,000 tests a day , with five firms churning out kits for domestic use and export .
“ We might be a bit overreacting at that time with just a few domestic infections , but there were substantial possibilities it would reach pandemic levels indeed , ” Lee said .
“ Have we done well ?
I do n’t know .
But we did n’t want to repeat what we went through in 2015 - our motto was ‘ never again . ’
” Reporting by Hyonhee Shin .
Editing by Gerry Doyle

Coronavirus lockdowns give Europe's cities cleaner air .
2020-03-30 02:31:51 +00:00 .
BRUSSELS ( Reuters ) - Air pollution has decreased in urban areas across Europe during lockdowns to combat the coronavirus , new satellite images showed on Monday , but campaigners warned city - dwellers were still more vulnerable to the epidemic .
A general view shows houses and office buildings in Brussels during the lockdown imposed by the Belgian government to slow down the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Brussels , Belgium , March 27 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Francois
Lenoir Cities including Brussels , Paris , Madrid , Milan and Frankfurt showed a reduction in average levels of noxious nitrogen dioxide over March 5 - 25 , compared with the same period last year , according to the Sentinel-5 satellite images .
That coincides with lockdowns in many European countries which have curbed road transport – the largest source of nitrogen oxides - and slowed output at gas - emitting factories .
The new images , released by the European Space Agency ( ESA ) and analysed by the non - profit European Public Health Alliance ( EPHA ) , show the changing density of nitrogen dioxide , which can cause respiratory problems and cancer , like heat maps .
Daily weather events can influence atmospheric pollution , so the satellite pictures took a 20 - day average and excluded readings where cloud cover reduced the quality of the data .
Data from the European Environment Agency ( EEA ) showed a similar trend over March 16 - 22 .
In Madrid , average nitrogen dioxide levels decreased by 56 % week - on - week after the Spanish government banned non - essential travel on March 14 .
The EPHA said people living in polluted cities may be more at risk from COVID-19 , because prolonged exposure to bad air can weaken the immune system , making it harder to fight infection .
“ That connection is very likely , ” Zoltan Massay - Kosubek , policy manager for clean air at EPHA , told Reuters .
“ But because the disease is new , it still has to be demonstrated . ”
Air pollution can cause or exacerbate lung cancer , pulmonary disease and strokes .
China also recorded a drop in nitrogen dioxide pollution in cities during February , when the government imposed draconian lockdown measures to contain the raging epidemic .
In some regions of Poland , however , nitrogen dioxide levels remained relatively high during the period despite its lockdown , perhaps due to the prevalence of coal - based heating .
Countries that went into lockdown later - such as Britain , which did so on March 23 - look set for a pollution reprieve in coming weeks
, EPHA said .
Air pollution causes around 400,000 premature deaths each year in Europe , EEA data show .
Reporting by Kate Abnett in Brussels ; Additional reporting by Agnieszka Barteczko in Warsaw ;
Editing by Andrew Cawthorne

An online lifeline in Portugal for old ventilators amid coronavirus crisis .
2020-03-29 22:09:01 +00:00 .
( This March 24 story was republished to correct Nascimento ’s title in paragraph 3 ) FILE PHOTO :
A woman wearing a protective mask as a preventive measure against coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) enters the subway at Rossio Square in downtown Lisbon , Portugal March 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Rafael Marchante / File Photo
By Catarina Demony
LISBON ( Reuters ) -
As hospitals struggle to cope with a shortage of life - saving ventilators to treat coronavirus patients , a group of volunteers from Portugal launched on Tuesday evening a unique platform hoping to bring old , unused medical equipment back to life .
On the online platform Vent2Life , Portuguese hospitals can create free accounts and report malfunctioning equipment stored at their facilities .
The platform will then link the hospital with a skilled technician who can fix the problem .
“ It is ready to connect hospitals and health centers with technicians and engineers to repair ventilators , ” the mastermind behind the initiative , Joao Nascimento , a Portuguese entrepreneur who studies at Harvard University , wrote on Twitter moments after the platform went live .
Hundreds of people liked the tweet , and many replied thanking Nascimento and the volunteers for their work .
“ These are the acts the country needs , ” one Twitter user said .
The platform , which took 10 days to put together by a team of software developers and designers , hopes to help repair at least 200 damaged or inactive ventilators currently stored at Portuguese hospitals spread across the country .
For now the platform can only be used by Portuguese hospitals , but Nascimento told Reuters it will soon be available in other countries , too .
The rapidly spreading outbreak , which has killed more than 17,000 people globally , is putting healthcare systems around the world in a tight spot and there is a shortage of ventilators needed to treat coronavirus patients .
Though Portugal , which declared a state of emergency on Wednesday , has only reported 2,362 coronavirus cases and 33 deaths , far fewer than in hard - hit Italy and Spain , the country ’s health system is already under mounting pressure .
In an interview with TVI television on Monday , Prime Minister Antonio Costa said the country ’s public hospitals have 1,142 ventilators and private hospitals have a further 250 .
To tackle the crisis , the government already bought 500 ventilators from China .
Private companies , such as the country ’s biggest utility , EDP ( EDP.LS ) , are also donating ventilators .
Nascimento said he hopes the broken ventilators can be working ahead of April 14 , when the coronavirus epidemic is expected to peak in Portugal , according to Health Minister Marta Temido .
The platform has been backed by several companies and universities , including Portuguese medical schools .
Reporting by Catarina Demony ;
Editing by Leslie Adler

Polish presidential challenger urges boycott of May vote, halts campaign .
2020-03-29 16:18:15 +00:00 .
WARSAW ( Reuters ) -
The main Polish opposition candidate running for president called on Sunday for a boycott of the country ’s May election due to the coronavirus and completely suspended her campaign , adding to doubts about whether the vote will go ahead as planned .
Malgorzata Kidawa - Blonska , a former parliament speaker , speaks as she is elected the center - right Civic Platform ( PO ) presidential candidate for the next year election , in Warsaw , Poland December 14 , 2019 .
Slawomir Kaminski / Agencja Gazeta via REUTERS /
Files
The ruling nationalist Law and Justice ( PiS ) party has so far stuck to the May 10 date for the presidential election despite calls to delay the vote .
On Saturday , it introduced rules on postal voting , infuriating the opposition which said changing regulations so close to the election was unconstitutional .
“ Let ’s boycott these elections , Poles stay home , your life is the most important thing , ” Malgorzata Kidawa - Blonska , the presidential candidate of the centre right Civic Platform ( PO ) party , told reporters , calling on other candidates to suspend their campaigns .
Incumbent President Andrzej Duda , a PiS ally , is well ahead in the polls and his election is crucial to the government ’s hopes of implementing its socially conservative agenda as the president holds the power to veto laws .
Critics say PiS is keen to hold the elections in May to capitalise on Duda ’s current strong position and avoid a later election where the fallout from the pandemic could dent his popularity .
Wladyslaw Kosiniak - Kamysz , the agrarian Polish Peasants ’ Party ’s ( PSL ) presidential candidate , was quoted by state - run news agency PAP saying he was focusing on amendments to the government ’s package of anti - crisis economic measures .
Independent candidate Szymon Holownia tweeted that the government should postpone the election but that a boycott would mean giving up civil rights .
On Saturday , Duda said he hoped elections would go ahead as planned but the situation was unpredictable .
“ If it did happen that the epidemic was raging ... then in that situation the election date could turn out to be unsustainable , but I am counting on it that we will be able to calmly hold these elections , ” he told state - run news channel TVP Info .
Health Minister Lukasz Szumowski said on Thursday it was too early to talk about the date and that an assessment should be made in two weeks .
Nearly three - quarters of Poles believe the election should be postponed , according to an opinion poll released on Wednesday .
France and Bavaria in Germany held local elections on March 15 .
Jaroslaw Flis , a sociologist with the Jagiellonian University in Krakow , estimates that the Bavarian elections resulted in an around 2,000 extra coronavirus cases .
France has postponed the second round of its local elections .
Doctors there have said they are bracing for a new wave of coronavirus infections after the government pressed ahead with the first round .
Reporting by Alan Charlish and Anna Koper ; editing by Nick Macfie and
Jane Merriman

Beating lockdown inertia: French city-dwellers keep fit on balconies .
2020-03-28 13:23:05 +00:00 .
Residents exercise on their balconies following fitness trainers in Nantes as a lockdown is imposed to slow the rate of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) spread in France , March 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Stephane Mahe NANTES , France ( Reuters ) -
As dusk fell over Nantes in western France , dozens of residents of an apartment block came out onto their balconies for a half - hour fitness session to beat the inertia of life under lockdown while the coronavirus sweeps across the country .
Music pumped out as the group put itself through a routine of star jumps , squats and jogging on the spot .
The workout caught on after Pierre Planchenaud began exercising alone .
Before long , his neighbours wanted to join in .
“ It meant everyone could relax after a day where you stay shut up indoors or in isolation , ” said Planchenaud , who works in advertising .
“ It enables people to have a bit of freedom and take their minds off things . ”
France has been under virtual lockdown since March 17 and on Friday Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said the unprecedented peacetime restrictions on public life would remain in place until at least April 15 .
The outbreak has killed about 2,000 people in France and sickened 33,000 others , according to official numbers .
Public gatherings are banned , schools and universities are closed and all non - essential businesses have shut down , with people allowed out of their homes only to buy groceries , carry out essential work , exercise or seek medical care .
Stress caused by fear of the disease is compounded by isolation , mental health experts say , and the French government has reported a marked increase in domestic violence during the lockdown .
“ We started last night and we ’re having a great time with the family .
It ’s cool , ” said firefighter resident Guillaume Ricquier .
Planchenaud leads the workout from a central courtyard , with the makeshift class wrapping up just in time to join others nationwide clapping and cheering in support of the healthcare workers battling to save the lives of coronavirus sufferers .
“ It brings a new energy , ” said osteopath Laura Martinez .
“ We said last night it needs to keep going after the lockdown . ”
Reporting by Guillaume Frouin ; Writing by Richard Lough ;
Editing by Ros Russell

Honeymoon on lockdown: newlyweds' cruise goes awry over coronavirus .
2020-03-28 06:51:41 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Newlyweds Yadira Garza and Joel Gonzalez began their honeymoon cruise on the MS Zaandam with romantic strolls overlooking the sea , but have now spent days in a stuffy , cramped cabin as the ship goes on lockdown to contain coronavirus .
Newlyweds Yadira Garza and Joel Gonzalez , from Mexico , pose for a photo during their honeymoon on board the cruise ship MS Zaandam , in this March 21 , 2020 photo .
Yadira Garza / via REUTERS Four “ older guests ” have died on the ship in recent days , cruise operator Holland America Line said without providing details , while more than 130 people aboard are suffering from influenza - like symptoms .
Two of them have tested positive for coronavirus .
The just - married couple , instead of stargazing on deck with a bottle of wine , is now playing cards and watching movies , news and National Geographic in a narrow room that fits a bed , sofa and dresser .
“ Our routine is to survive , ” said Garza , who married Gonzalez in the northern Mexican city of Monterrey on February 29 - one day after Mexico confirmed its first case of coronavirus .
“ It was before it became a pandemic , we did n’t see a risk , ” she told Reuters in a phone interview .
Things quickly changed .
Since last Sunday , the Zaandam ’s 1,243 passengers were told to keep to their rooms , barely two weeks into the cruise that set off from Buenos Aires on March 7 and was due to conclude at San Antonio , Chile , on March 21 .
The 238 - meter ( 781 - foot ) vessel staffed by 586 crew is now sitting off the Pacific coast of Panama , unable to continue its detour to Fort Lauderdale , Florida , because canal authorities say it can not transit the waterway for sanitary reasons .
Holland America is owned by Carnival Corp , whose Princess Cruises recently said it was suspending voyages for two months , after two of its ocean liners that had been quarantined became hotbeds for coronavirus infections .
Both Garza and Gonzalez said they are in good health , and are eager to return home to see their family and to again stroll freely in the fresh air .
“ Last week I did 56,000 steps and this week I did 10,000 .
We have practically no movement , ” Garza said , referencing her pedometer .
When the crew delivers water bottles and toiletries , the couple wipes down whatever they can , but has already ran out of soap .
“ We are washing everything with shampoo , ” Garza said .
Her hope of soon getting off the Zaandam was restored after cruise operators said on Friday that people without symptoms would be transferred to the Rotterdam , a sister ship , which pulled up alongside .
“ Today I got dressed , I ’m not in pyjamas , ” Garza said .
“ They gave us the news that we could leave tomorrow , and I said , I ’m going to get dressed to be ready . ”
Interactive graphic tracking global spread of coronavirus : open tmsnrt.rs/3aIRuz7 in an external browser .
Reporting by Raúl Cortés Fernández in Mexico City ; Writing by Daina Beth Solomon ;
Editing by Stephen Coates

Honeymoon on lockdown: newlyweds' cruise goes awry over coronavirus .
2020-03-28 06:41:56 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Newlyweds Yadira Garza and Joel Gonzalez began their honeymoon cruise on the MS Zaandam with romantic strolls overlooking the sea , but have now spent days in a stuffy , cramped cabin as the ship goes on lockdown to contain coronavirus .
Newlyweds Yadira Garza and Joel Gonzalez , from Mexico , pose for a photo during their honeymoon on board the cruise ship MS Zaandam , in this March 21 , 2020 photo .
Four passengers have died on the cruise ship off the Pacific coast of Panama and more than 130 others aboard are suffering from influenza - like symptoms , at least two of whom have the coronavirus , the vessel 's operator said on Friday .
MANDATORY CREDIT .
Yadira Garza / via REUTERS
Four “ older guests ” have died on the ship in recent days , cruise operator Holland America Line said without providing details , while more than 130 people aboard are suffering from influenza - like symptoms .
Two of them have tested positive for coronavirus .
The just - married couple , instead of stargazing on deck with a bottle of wine , is now playing cards and watching movies , news and National Geographic in a narrow room that fits a bed , sofa and dresser .
“ Our routine is to survive , ” said Garza , who married Gonzalez in the northern Mexican city of Monterrey on February 29 - one day after Mexico confirmed its first case of coronavirus .
“ It was before it became a pandemic , we did n’t see a risk , ” she told Reuters in a phone interview .
Things quickly changed .
Since last Sunday , the Zaandam ’s 1,243 passengers were told to keep to their rooms , barely two weeks into the cruise that set off from Buenos Aires on March 7 and was due to conclude at San Antonio , Chile , on March 21 .
The 238 - meter ( 781 - foot ) vessel staffed by 586 crew is now sitting off the Pacific coast of Panama , unable to continue its detour to Fort Lauderdale , Florida , because canal authorities say it can not transit the waterway for sanitary reasons .
Holland America is owned by Carnival Corp , whose Princess Cruises recently said it was suspending voyages for two months , after two of its ocean liners that had been quarantined became hotbeds for coronavirus infections .
Both Garza and Gonzalez said they are in good health , and are eager to return home to see their family and to again stroll freely in the fresh air .
“ Last week I did 56,000 steps and this week I did 10,000 .
We have practically no movement , ” Garza said , referencing her pedometer .
When the crew delivers water bottles and toiletries , the couple wipes down whatever they can , but has already ran out of soap .
“ We are washing everything with shampoo , ” Garza said .
Her hope of soon getting off the Zaandam was restored after cruise operators said on Friday that people without symptoms would be transferred to the Rotterdam , a sister ship , which pulled up alongside .
“ Today I got dressed , I ’m not in pyjamas , ” Garza said .
“ They gave us the news that we could leave tomorrow , and I said , I ’m going to get dressed to be ready . ”
Interactive graphic tracking global spread of coronavirus : open tmsnrt.rs/3aIRuz7 in an external browser .
Reporting by Raúl Cortés Fernández in Mexico City ; Writing by Daina Beth Solomon ;
Editing by Stephen Coates

Four passengers die on cruise ship grappling with coronavirus off Panama .
2020-03-27 23:07:42 +00:00 .
PANAMA CITY ( Reuters ) -
Four passengers have died aboard a cruise ship off the coast of Panama with over 130 others suffering from influenza - like symptoms , at least two of whom have coronavirus , the vessel ’s operator said on Friday .
The cruise ship MS Zaandam is pictured after four passengers have died on board , as the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak continues , in Panama City , Panama March 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Erick Marciscano Holland America Line said the MS Zaandam , previously on a South American cruise , was seeking permission to transit the Panama Canal and make its way to Ft .
Lauderdale , Florida .
But Panamanian health officials have blocked the ship ’s passage through the canal , citing sanitary reasons .
“ The Health Ministry has not given permission for the ship to pass , and if they were to do tests on board and they were to come out positive , the ship would have to be in quarantine , ” Ricaurte Vasquez , the Panama Canal Authority ’s administrator , said Friday .
The ship has 1,243 guests and 586 crew on board , as well as four doctors and four nurses , the cruise operator said in statement .
It said four “ older guests ” had died aboard the ship , which nobody had disembarked from since it docked in Punta Arenas , Chile nearly two weeks ago .
Significant numbers of U.S. Canadian , Australian , UK and Dutch citizens are among passengers stuck on board , according to media reports from their respective countries .
Ian Rae , a London - based Scotsman who said he was a passenger , tweeted praise for the operator ’s efforts to get supplies on board the ship , and struck an upbeat note .
“ Judging by the small boats coming with photographers to photo us , the news is out that we have Covid-19 and deaths on board .
Still feeling upbeat and ready to face the challenge , ” Rae wrote on Twitter on Friday afternoon .
Family members back home worried about older passengers on the ship .
Neil Bedford told Reuters his British parents , aged 65 and 63 , were staying in their rooms while the ship sat off Panama .
“ They are currently offloading healthy passengers to another ship , starting with the over 70s , and everyone is somehow being tested before they leave , ” Bedford said , citing information from his mother .
Holland America confirmed plans to transfer groups of healthy passengers to the Zaandam ’s sister ship , Rotterdam , which is now alongside the vessel in Panamanian waters .
Hayley Johnson , granddaughter of a 90 - year - old man and 75 - year - old woman on board , wrote on Twitter that she was especially worried about her grandmother , a Type 1 diabetic .
“ It ’s terrifying that no plan has been made for them and there are British nationals on this ship who need help , ” she said .
Guests have been asked to self - isolate since March 22 and public spaces on the 238 meter ( 781 foot ) vessel are closed .
Some 53 guests and 85 crew have reported to the Zaandam ’s medical center with flu - like symptoms , Holland America said , adding that “ all ports ” along Zaandam ’s South America route had been closed to cruise ships .
Reporting by Elida Moreno ; Additional reporting by Mexico City Newsroom ;
Writing by Dave Graham and Daina Beth Solomon , Editing by Frank Jack Daniel and Tom Brown

Hedge fund Fir Tree puts $410 million dislocation fund to work .
2020-03-27 19:38:53 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
The floor of the New York Stock Exchange .
New York , U.S. , March 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lucas Jackson / File Photo BOSTON ( Reuters ) -
After years of waiting and watching from afar , hedge fund Fir Tree Partners is spending $ 410 million from its dislocation funds on stocks , pockets of the credit market and other securities , sure the historic market sell - off made new bargains .
The $ 3 billion hedge fund , known for winning bets on the overheated housing market and making money in credit crises , has put roughly 30 % to work and is scouring all sectors for opportunities as markets seesaw , a person familiar with the firm ’s trading told Reuters .
Fears about the corona virus sparked panic selling and fears about growth are weighing on them still even as a government stimulus packaged prompted buying .
Fir Tree , which has been managing money since 1994 , began raising money for its Capital Opportunity Dislocation Fund and Value Dislocation Fund in 2013 and 2014 , years before other investment firms created vehicles designed to eventually profit from an economic downturn or market drop .
Its pool is different .
It has a broader investment mandate that permits buying in virtually all sectors , including capital structure arbitrage , special situations and real estate .
There are also fixed investment triggers that strip out human emotion on calling when it is time to buy .
Firms including Sixth Street Partners and Centerbridge Partners LP are now unleashing capital in portfolios earmarked for a crisis .
These funds are likely to profit in a year other investments are nursing heavy losses .
The average stock - focused hedge fund has lost 16 % this year through the middle of March , Goldman Sachs data show , and the SP 500 Index has lost 21 % since January .
Fir Tree ’s mandate lets managers buy only after a 12 % decline in the SP 500 Total Return Index or a 250 basis point spread widening in the JPMorgan Global High Yield Index .
In late 2018 when stocks dropped , the signals said it was time ; the commitment period had ended and a two year clock to put the money to work started ticking .
Unwilling to chase returns as stocks quickly rebounded to new records in 2019 , Fir Tree however held off .
It told pension funds , endowments , and sovereign wealth funds that made commitments of between $ 10 million and $ 25 million to the fund that there was no pressure to participate yet , the person familiar with the trading said .
The team has until the end of 2020 to spend the full amount .
Reporting by Svea Herbst - Bayliss ;
Editing by David Gregorio

Russia's Bolshoi Theater goes online as coronavirus curbs public life .
2020-03-27 19:34:52 +00:00 .
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) - Moscow ’s famed Bolshoi Theater has begun streaming some of its most notable past performances online after being forced to shut its doors to the public as a result of tough new restrictions aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus .
A general view shows the empty hall of the Bolshoi Theatre prior to the launch of its project to stream iconic performances online making them available worldwide , in Moscow , Russia March 27 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Evgenia Novozhenina
The Bolshoi , which closed on March 17 until April 10 , joins a string of other Russian theaters , opera houses and museums that have turned to online streaming to satisfy Russians ’ cultural needs during the coronavirus lockdown .
Russia has so far recorded 1,036 cases of the virus and five related deaths , and has stepped up measures to curb its spread .
This weekend Moscow will shutter all cafes , restaurants and shops apart from those selling food and medicine .
The Bolshoi ’s ballet dancers are having to get used to training and keeping in shape at home .
“ Of course it ’s a very difficult time for us , ” Denis Rodkin , a principal dancer , told Reuters on Friday .
“ We really depend on our profession ...
I hope that this will not last long and everything will be up and running again soon . ”
In the meantime , Rodkin said , the performances streamed online might help keep people ’s spirits up while they are confined to their homes .
“ Art , and the Bolshoi Theater ’s broadcasts in particular , support people in these difficult conditions , ” he said .
“ They will be inspired , recharged with art , and all this will end . ”
Ballet soloist Ksenia Zhiganshina also put a brave face on the enforced closure of the theater and its impact on the dancers .
“ We will practise at home and do everything possible , do exercises to try and keep our form in the conditions that we have , ” she said .
“ Let ’s see how it works out . ”
An opera and ballet theater in Perm , an industrial city east of Moscow , announced this month that as well as streaming its performances online it would also allow one spectator to watch in person .
Each person chosen will have to be screened by a doctor before entering the theater .
Additional reporting by Anastasia Adasheva ; Writing by Gabrielle Tétrault - Farber ;
Editing by Gareth Jones

EPA waives fuel requirements, extends biofuel deadline to help refineries .
2020-03-27 18:50:03 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on Friday unveiled a raft of measures that agency chief Andrew Wheeler said are designed to help oil refineries cope with fallout from the coronavirus , including waiving anti - smog requirements for gasoline and extending the deadline for small facilities to show compliance with the nation ’s biofuel law .
FILE PHOTO :
The Environmental Protection Agency headquarters is seen in Washington , D.C. , U.S. , January 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Lucy Nicholson
The outbreak has touched off a massive global decline in demand for motor fuels and forced companies to reduce staffing levels to slow infection rates .
Typically U.S. fuel dealers are required to stop selling winter - grade gasoline on May 1 as summertime anti - smog standards come into play .
But marketers will now be allowed to sell the fuel until at least May 20 , and possibly beyond .
“ The reason we have to do this is because people are driving fewer miles and the winter blends are stockpiled in all the tanks , ” Wheeler told Reuters .
“ There ’s no place to put the summer blend . ”
The EPA , he said , will also extend the deadline for small oil refineries to prove their compliance with the Renewable Fuel Standard ( RFS ) , the law that requires refineries to blend billions of gallons of biofuels like ethanol into their fuel or buy credits from those that do .
Refiners are typically required to prove their compliance by March 31 , but facilities with less than 75,000 barrels of daily processing capacity will be given extensions .
Wheeler said the decision was related to ongoing litigation over the agency ’s Small Refinery Exemption Program , which can free some small plants of their obligations under the RFS .
A federal court ruled in January that the EPA had been too free with the waivers , and while the EPA did not challenge the ruling , some refineries have .
Wheeler said it would be unfair to force small refineries to comply with the RFS before that case is over .
“ We ’re extending the compliance assistance to all the smaller refineries , ” he said .
In the meantime , the agency will not revisit or rescind any of the exemptions it has given to small refineries in the past .
“ Investigating and initiating enforcement actions against small refineries that were previously subject to an exemption is a low priority for the agency , ” the EPA said in a press release outlining the moves .
Reporting by Stephanie Kelly ; Editing by Marguerita Choy and
Leslie Adler

Italy tops 9,000 coronavirus deaths, overtakes China in cases .
2020-03-27 18:09:38 +00:00 .
ROME ( Reuters ) - Italy ’s recorded 919 deaths from coronavirus on Friday , the highest daily toll anywhere in the world , while the number of confirmed cases eclipsed the total in China where the virus first emerged .
Members of the medical staff in protective suits treat a patient suffering from coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in an intensive care unit at the San Raffaele hospital in Milan , Italy , March 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Flavio Lo Scalzo Italy was the first Western country to introduce swingeing restrictions on movement after uncovering the outbreak five weeks ago .
It has tightened them week by week , banning all non - essential activities until at least next Friday .
Yet only the United States has now recorded more cases , while Italy has suffered almost twice as many deaths as any other nation .
“ We have n’t reached the peak and we have n’t passed it , ” the chief of the Superior Health Institute , Silvio Brusaferro , told reporters before the data was released .
Nonetheless , he said there were “ signs of a slowdown ” in the numbers of infections , which slipped from the previous 24 - hour period .
“ When the descent begins , how steep it is will depend on our behaviour , ” Brusaferro said .
Franco Locatelli , head of the council advising the government on health matters , said the existing restrictions on movement were likely to be extended beyond the hoped - for end date of April 3 : “ If I had to decide using today ’s data , I believe it is inevitable these measures will be prolonged . ”
The number of confirmed cases rose by 5,959 on Friday to 86,498 , taking Italy past China , with the death toll at 9,134 .
SCHOOL SHUTDOWN EXTENDED Schools and universities were among the first places to be shut down , closing nationwide on March 5 .
Education Minister Lucia Azzolina said the closure would have to be extended past April 3 .
“ Our aim is to ensure that students return to school only when we are completely sure that it is safe , ” she told the state broadcaster RAI .
The northern region of Lombardy , centred on the financial capital Milan , has accounted for 43 % of Italy ’s known cases and 59 % of deaths .
Once again , the city of Bergamo saw the most new cases on Friday - 602 - with Milan in second place with 547 .
However , the region as a whole saw a slight dip .
“ The infection rate is not growing and I think it is about to fall , ” said Lombardy Governor Attilio Fontana .
He said testing was being expanded , with people now having to present only a single coronavirus symptom to be swabbed , rather than at least two .
In an open letter , more than 300 doctors and scientists called on the government to let them use their own laboratories to speed up testing and identify the mild and asymptomatic cases that are currently going undetected .
At present , only a few , specialist labs are checking swabs , severely restricting the number of tests and information the true extent of the epidemic .
“ In Italy there is an extraordinary community of researchers who could contribute immediately and very significantly and at zero cost to the current emergency situation , ” they said .
There was no immediate response from the Health Ministry .
The national federation of doctors , surgeons and orthodontists said on Friday that 46 of their colleagues had died so far , many of them family doctors in northern towns and cities .
Additional reporting by Angelo Amante and Giuseppe Fonte in Rome and Elvira Pollina in Milan ; Editing by Nick Macfie and
Kevin Liffey

'Maximum bearish': funds in record rush to cash in past week .
2020-03-27 17:33:54 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) -
Investors rushed into cash and out of bonds at a record pace over the past week as the coronavirus pandemic caused mayhem in markets , BofA said on Friday , though it noted a key positioning signal at “ maximum bearish ” could signal a big rally ahead .
FILE PHOTO :
A Bank of America logo is pictured in the Manhattan borough of New York City , New York , U.S. , January 30 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Carlo Allegri / File Photo
BofA ’s weekly fund flows data based on figures from EPFR Global showed a record $ 234.6 billion had made their way into cash funds in the week to Wednesday while another record of $ 109 billion was registered in redemptions from bond funds .
The bank noted record $ 61.2 billion outflow from investment grade debt and “ monster ” $ 17.1 billion outflows from emerging bonds .
Bond outflows totalled a “ stunning ” $ 218 billion in the past two weeks and $ 257 billion over the past month , it noted .
“ The bond bubble pops , ” the report said , adding the past four weeks ’ redemptions had unwound 44 % of “ bubble inflows of $ 583 billion in the prior 52 weeks . ”
Equity funds meanwhile shed $ 26.2 billion , with U.S. share funds down $ 15.8 billion , the data showed .
The data , however , does not capture the market rebound seen in the past three sessions that boosted New York ’s Dow Jones on Tuesday to its biggest one - day rise since 1933 , thanks to central banks promising “ whatever it takes ” to ensure liquidity and a $ 2 trillion U.S. coronavirus relief bill .
Before that , between February 19 and March 23 , an MSCI index of world stocks , fell about 35 % .
BofA said its Bull Bear Indicator - a key market measure it used to track positioning - had hit zero , a level it described as “ maximum bearish ” .
That potentially implies a substantial rebound in credit and stock markets if the stimulus plans of the Federal Reserve and the U.S. government succeed , the bank added .
That could be borne out by the present rally , which was undeterred even after Thursday data showing nearly 3.3 million Americans had filed for unemployment benefits in the past week , eclipsing the previous record of 695,000 set in 1982 .
BofA also said the equity allocations of its private clients had fallen to 52.8 % , the lowest since February 2013 .
While the U.S. job data shows how deep the incoming recession will likely be , some investors are hoping that additional stimulus from the Donald Trump administration will further cushion the blow .
BofA noted the Bull Bear indicator had hit zero in July 2008 but that rally had been aborted by the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy four weeks later .
“ The big difference in this crash is that policy panic ( happened ) before not after the credit event ; if Fed bazooka short - circuits a systemic bankruptcy , the combo of max bearish positioning and max policy stimulus equate to big rally in credit and stock markets , ” it added .
Reporting by Julien Ponthus , editing by Sujata Rao and Nick Zieminski

Russia shuts state hotels, resorts as coronavirus cases rise past 1,000 .
2020-03-27 17:16:53 +00:00 .
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) -
The Kremlin confirmed a coronavirus case in President Vladimir Putin ’s administration on Friday and the government said measures imposed in Moscow to fight the virus should be extended across Russia .
People queue before undergoing medical tests for coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) at a laboratory in Moscow , Russia March 26 , 2020 .
Alexander Avilov / Moscow News Agency / Handout via REUTERS
The official tally of confirmed cases jumped by a record daily amount for the third day in a row , bringing Russia ’s total to 1,036 .
Four people have died of the coronavirus .
The Kremlin said it was taking measures to stop the virus spreading further after a staff member in the presidential administration contracted the virus .
It said the person had not come into contact with Putin , but declined to identify them .
Putin has declared next week a non - working week , and Moscow , the vast country ’s worst - affected area , will this weekend close all cafes , restaurants and shops apart from those selling food and medicine , until April 5 .
International flights have been suspended .
On Friday , Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said measures in place in Moscow to halt the spread of the virus should be imposed across the country and urged Russians to stay at home and refrain from all but essential trips .
“ Maybe on these days you were planning to visit a shopping center , pop into a cafe , go to a health resort , but it is important to understand that coronavirus comes from these trips , you get infected in crowded places , ” he said .
Mishustin also ordered the country ’s huge network of state - run hotels , resorts and recreational facilities to shut down from March 28 until June 1 .
Russia ’s mass domestic tourism and recreation sector is still dominated by the state , a legacy from Soviet times .
Millions of Russians still holiday each year at state - run hotels , resorts , health spas and children ’s camps .
The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Russia remains much lower than in many European countries , but the mayor of Moscow told Putin on Tuesday that the real scale of the problem in the capital far exceeded official figures .
An opinion poll by the Moscow - based Levada Centre showed the majority of Russians , some 59 percent , do not believe the official figures .
Twenty - four percent said they “ absolutely ” did not believe them and 35 percent said they only partially believed them , the poll showed .
Anna Popova , the head of the state consumer health watchdog , said Russia was not yet seeing signs of an exponential growth in cases .
Putin has said he hopes Russia would defeat coronavirus in two to three months if it imposed tough measures quickly .
Additional reporting by Maria Kiselyova , Maria Grabar and Gleb Stolyarov ;
Editing by Peter Graff and Timothy Heritage

Closed borders, no shops? Been there, done that, say east Europeans .
2020-03-27 16:34:16 +00:00 .
PRAGUE / WARSAW ( Reuters ) - Eastern Europeans with strong memories of authoritarian Communist rule have taken a “ been there , done that ” attitude to the restrictions on free movement and shortages of some basic goods caused by the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
A woman wearing a face mask stands at the Prague Castle as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues in Prague , Czech Republic , March 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS / David W Cerny / File Photo
The shuttered stores , sealed borders and other measures have revived memories of life behind the old ‘ Iron Curtain ’ before the fall of Communism and advent of democracy in 1989 .
As Czech scientist Jan Konvalinka , 57 , joked on Twitter , “ Shut borders , nothing on shelves , store closures ?
Welcome to my childhood . ”
“ We ’ve been there , done that , ” he added .
Scenes of shoppers in Britain , the United States and elsewhere plundering supermarkets for toilet paper , pasta and canned goods have bemused many in a region where people once had to wait years to be able to buy a car or where they would queue hours for a rare delivery of bananas at a state - run store .
“ In the UK , where you ’ve had democracy for years , people panic when there ’s an unusual situation .
We are behaving in a more rational way , we are detached , ” said Piotr Adamowicz , 59 , an opposition member of the Polish parliament and former anti - communist activist .
Echoing that comment , Andrea in Budapest said : “ People here are not panicking ” .
“ My grandmother lived through two wars , my mom was born during World War II and then we had Communism .
We are prepared for this , ” said Andrea , an ethnic Hungarian who grew up in Romania and spent time in a detention center before 1989 after trying to cross into Hungary .
TEMPORARY MEASURES
People do not expect the current restrictions to last very long , unlike the privations they endured in the past .
“ For me these border closures do n’t hurt me as much as during Communism because I know they will open one day , ” said Filip Antos , 51 , owner of Czech online travel service A-Hotel.com .
“ This is not like Communism because we know this will end .
During Communism we did n’t think it would ever end . ”
Access to trustworthy news sources today has also eased the strain for those who remember Moscow - dominated rule that ended in a series of mostly peaceful revolutions in 1989 .
Under Communism , governments that nobody trusted were the main source of people ’s information in a pre - Internet world .
i
For younger east Europeans , however , the experience of shortages and closed borders is novel .
“ I never thought such things could happen again , ” said Tomas Klima , 31 , who was born a year before the 1989 Velvet Revolution in then - Czechoslovakia .
But , noting the hugely expanded role of the state in many countries to tackle the coronavirus pandemic and cushion the economic impact of the disruption caused , he added : “ We tend to forget too quickly what it used to be like back then .
The state controlled everything , you had to ask for permission to travel abroad etc .
“ I hope people will realize soon that by allowing the state to take control of various aspects of people ’s lives , even if with good intentions , they lose a lot of their liberty . ”
Additional Reporting by Joanna Plucinska in Warsaw , Jan Lopatka in Prague and Krisztina Than in Budapest ,
Editing by Gareth Jones

Global watchdog defers bank capital rules to 2023 due to epidemic .
2020-03-27 16:10:11 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Global banking regulators said on Friday they will give banks an extra year to implement pending capital rules in order for them to focus on the fallout from the coronavirus epidemic .
FILE PHOTO :
Governor of the Bank of France Francois Villeroy de Galhau speaks during a news conference at the G7 finance ministers and central bank governors meeting in Chantilly , near Paris , France , July 18 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Pascal Rossignol / File Photo
The Governors and Heads of Supervision ( GHOS ) , the body that oversees the Basel Committee of global banking regulators , said it was deferring several rules until January 2023 .
“ It is important that banks and supervisors are able to commit their full resources to respond to the impact of Covid-19 , ” said François Villeroy de Galhau , Chairman of the GHOS and Governor of the Bank of France .
“ The measures endorsed by GHOS today aim to prioritise these objectives and we remain ready to act further if necessary . ”
Villeroy said banks needed to commit all their resources during the epidemic to helping the economy and ensuring that the banking system remains financially and operationally resilient .
After taxpayers had to bail out undercapitalized lenders in the financial crisis a decade ago , the Basel Committee toughened its rules under a reform known as Basel III .
Most of the package has been implemented , but some remaining elements were agreed in December 2017 and due to be introduced in January 2022 .
These include a revised leverage ratio , changes to models used by big banks to work out how much capital they should hold , and changes to how much capital to hold against trading book assets like derivatives .
The “ output floor ” or minimum capital requirements irrespective of what an internal model comes up with , has also been delayed a year to January 2023 .
They are meant to complement the initial set of Basel III rules that are already in force without significantly increasing overall capital requirements .
“ The revised timeline is therefore not expected to dilute the capital strength of the global banking system , but will provide banks and supervisors additional capacity to respond immediately and effectively to the impact of Covid-19 , ” GHOS said in its statement .
Regulators in Europe have faced heavy lobbying by banks to water down the rules as the European Union looks to put them into EU law .
But GHOS said its members , which include the European Central Bank that regulates top euro zone lenders , unanimously reaffirmed their expectation of “ full , timely and consistent implementation ” of all the Basel III standards based on the revised timeline .
“ Current events demonstrate once again the importance of a resilient financial system , which these reforms will help further reinforce , ” it said .
Reporting by Huw Jones ;
editing by Marc Jones and Toby Chopra

Canada withdrawal from 2020 Games was unilateral decision - COC .
2020-03-27 15:55:03 +00:00 .
ATHENS ( Reuters ) -
Canada ’s decision to withdraw from the Tokyo Olympic Games if they were to be held in 2020 was a unilateral decision based on the health and safety of athletes and with no consultation with the International Olympic Committee , the COC said on Friday .
The Olympic rings are pictured at dusk through a steel fence , at the waterfront area of the Odaiba Marine Park , after the postponing of the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 , due to the outbreak of coronavirus disease ( COVID 19 ) , in Tokyo , Japan March 25 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Issei Kato
The Canadian Olympic Committee and the Canadian Paralympic Committee had said on Sunday they would not be sending athletes to Tokyo in July if the IOC decided to go ahead with the plans to stage Games this year amid the coronavirus outbreak .
“ While we are , and have been , in constant communication with the IOC , our decision last Sunday evening to not send athletes to Tokyo this summer because of COVID-19 concerns was taken solely by the Canadian Olympic Committee without the participation of the IOC , ” COC spokesperson Photi Sotiropoulos told Reuters in a telephone call .
“ The decision was taken in consultation with our athletes ’ commission , our Chief Medical Officer and the Canadian sport community . ”
“ We met with our athletes ’ commission ... twice before making our decision with the full support of over 100 members of our sport community and the Canadian Olympic Board , ” Sotiropoulos added .
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau backed the COC decision , urging other countries to do the same .
Canada is among the bigger national Olympic committees and the country is one of only a handful to have hosted both summer and winter Olympics .
Australia , another Olympic powerhouse , followed suit hours later , piling more pressure on Games organisers and the IOC to postpone the Olympics .
This also prompted some suggestions that the IOC may have planned this in a way to create leverage through the double withdrawal threat , allowing the Olympic body to finally postpone the Games .
“ That did not happen .
This decision was not part of a plan by the IOC to create leverage for a postponement of Games , ” Sotiropoulos said .
“ We made this difficult decision independently of the IOC .
We were surprised and pleased when Australia took a very similar position within hours of our own . ”
The IOC on Tuesday finally postponed the Olympics by a year after also coming under intense pressure from thousands of athletes , whose preparations had been disrupted by the spread of the virus .
The Olympics have never before been delayed , though they were cancelled altogether in 1916 , 1940 and 1944 during the two world wars , and major Cold War boycotts disrupted the Moscow and Los Angeles Games in 1980 and 1984 , respectively .
Reporting by Karolos Grohmann ;
Editing by Christian Radnedge

From behind a closed door, infected UK PM Johnson coordinates coronavirus battle .
2020-03-27 15:03:05 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) -
A knock at the door and the sound of retreating footsteps - that is how British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will have food and paperwork delivered from the outside world for the next seven days after he tested positive for coronavirus overnight .
FILE PHOTO :
Britain 's Prime Minister Boris Johnson as he walks out of the door of 10 Downing Street before applauding during the Clap For Our Carers campaign in support of the NHS , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , London , Britain , March 26 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Hannah McKay Johnson said on Friday he would still lead the country ’s response to the outbreak but would be holed up inside a borrowed office within the nation ’s seat of government .
The death toll in Britain shot up by a third on Friday to 759 from 578 people the previous day .
“ I am working from home .
I ’m self - isolating .
And that ’s entirely the right thing to do , ” Johnson said in a video message on Twitter .
“ But be in no doubt that I can continue , thanks to the wizardry of modern technology , to communicate with all my top team to lead the national fightback against coronavirus . ”
Now , he will be working from an office borrowed from finance minister Rishi Sunak in a property adjacent to his own official offices , holding ministerial meetings via video conference .
Meals and paperwork will be delivered to his door , a spokesman for the prime minister said .
“ In terms of where staff have to leave meals for the PM or to deliver work , then obviously they can leave that for the Prime Minister , and they can knock on the door ... and then they can safely depart , ” the spokesman said .
The unprecedented arrangement means doors and corridors have been sealed off within the sprawling 17th century residence - cum - offices of Downing Street , recognised around the world for its glossy black front door and unusual dark facade .
Downing Street , a popular tourist attraction , has been the on - off seat of the government for nearly 300 years .
Britain ’s role in two world wars was coordinated from the central London terrace near the Houses of Parliament .
Johnson , 55 , described his symptoms as mild - a temperature and a cough - and his spokesman said the virus did not affect his running of the daily governmental meeting of experts and ministers that the media has been dubbed the “ war cabinet ” .
“ The PM played his role entirely via video conferencing ... and that ’s how it will continue , ” the spokesman said , referring to Friday ’s 0930 GMT meeting .
It was not immediately clear whether Johnson ’s 32 - year - old partner , Carrie Symonds , who is pregnant , had been tested .
Johnson will remain bunkered down for seven days , in line with public health guidance , while the duty of leading a daily press conference is likely to be delegated to other ministers during that time .
No responsibilities have been handed over to his designated deputy , foreign minister Dominic Raab .
During this time the British leader will effectively abandon the Number 10 Downing Street address , and instead work from Number 11 - traditionally the office of the finance minister .
“ Thank you to everybody who ’s doing what I ’m doing , working from home , to stop the spread of the virus from household to household , ” Johnson said .
“ That ’s the way we ’re going to win , we ’re going to beat it , and we ’re going to beat it together . ”
( This story corrects day to days in first paragraph )
Reporting by William James ;
Editing by Frances Kerry

Indonesia, in major shift, to allow lockdowns as coronavirus cases soar .
2020-03-27 14:55:02 +00:00 .
JAKARTA ( Reuters ) - Indonesia ’s chief security minister Mahfud MD said on Friday the national government would allow regional authorities to impose lockdowns to control the coronavirus , in a major shift in strategy after previously resisting tougher restrictions .
An elderly woman sleeps at a bench in a shopping mall after Indonesia 's capital begins a two - week emergency period to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Jakarta , Indonesia March 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Ajeng Dinar Ulfiana
The security chief also said the government was mulling a plan to ban “ mudik ” - the practice that sees millions of Indonesians leave towns and cities for their native villages at the end of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan in May.
The change of tack came after Indonesia , the world ’s fourth most populous nation , announced on Friday its biggest one - day surge in coronavirus cases , up 153 to 1,046 .
Indonesia ’s government has previously been reluctant to embrace the stricter containment strategies of other nations , and President Joko Widodo ’s policy has been to encourage social distancing while not imposing tighter restrictions on movement .
But its eastern province of Papua defied Jakarta on Thursday by closing its airports , sea ports and land borders for 14 days in an attempt to prevent the coronavirus from spreading .
After the central government initially sought to over - rule Papua ’s moves , Mahfud told reporters on Friday that Jakarta would now issue a regulation allowing regional governments to impose a strict quarantine on their territory .
“ It will regulate when regional areas can declare movement limitation , which is commonly known as a lockdown , ” Mahfud said .
In a later statement obtained by Reuters , Mahfud said the government was approving a “ regional quarantine ” , not a lockdown .
Indonesia has only conducted 4,336 tests , a fraction of those done by many other nations .
One model by infectious disease experts suggests there are as many as 50,000 cases .
Indonesia has a total population of more than 260 million .
SAFE HAVEN
Hundreds of thousands of residents of Jakarta , where most confirmed cases of coronavirus have been clustered , have left over the past week for their home villages to find a safe haven , or after losing their jobs , officials said .
In response , local governments took matters into their own hands .
The mayor of Tegal , a city in Central Java , this week closed 49 access points and shut public spaces until July 30 after a local returned from Abu Dhabi with the coronavirus .
“ People need to understand the policy I took .
If I had to choose , I ’d rather be hated by people than let them die , ” the mayor , Dedy Yon Supriyono , was quoted by CNN Indonesia as saying .
In Papua , the decision to close its borders was taken in consultation with the police and the military , documents showed .
Papua ’s four airports and sea ports were closed on Thursday and remained shut on Friday , a government official said .
Ahmad Syarif Syechbubakr , a Jakarta - based analyst with Bower Group Asia , said Widodo was “ very concerned about the economic impact of the lockdown ” and his advisers saw a risk of social unrest by millions of informal workers like street hawkers and labourers if movement is restricted .
The University of Indonesia ’s Pandu Riono said authorities must cancel the “ mudik . ”
“ Many people going home are likely to come from a place that ’s infested with the virus , ” he said .
Reporting by Stanley Widianto , Bernadette Christina and Tom Allard ;
Editing by Ed Davies and Gareth Jones

British PM Boris Johnson tests positive for coronavirus .
2020-03-27 12:34:03 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has tested positive for coronavirus and is self - isolating at his Downing Street residence but said he would still lead the government ’s response to the accelerating outbreak .
Britain 's Prime Minister Boris Johnson applauds outside 10 Downing Street during the Clap For Our Carers campaign in support of the NHS , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , London , Britain , March 26 , 2020 .
Pictre taken March 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Hannah McKay Johnson , 55 , experienced mild symptoms on Thursday - a day after he answered at the prime minister ’s weekly question - and - answer session in parliament ’s House of Commons chamber .
“ I ’ve taken a test .
That has come out positive , ” Johnson said on Friday in a video statement broadcast on Twitter .
“ I ’ve developed mild symptoms of the coronavirus .
That ’s to say - a temperature and a persistent cough .
“ So I am working from home .
I ’m self - isolating , ” Johnson said .
“ Be in no doubt that I can continue , thanks to the wizardry of modern technology , to communicate with all my top team to lead the national fightback against coronavirus . ”
Johnson chaired a government meeting on the coronavirus on Friday morning via video conference .
It was not immediately clear how many Downing Street staff and senior ministers would now need to isolate themselves given that many have had contact with Johnson over recent days and weeks .
His finance minister , Rishi Sunak , is not self - isolating , a Treasury source said .
Britons paid tribute to health workers on Thursday evening , clapping and cheering from doorways and windows .
Johnson and Sunak took part , but came out of separate entrances on Downing Street and did not come into close contact , according to a Reuters photographer at the scene .
It was not immediately clear whether Johnson ’s 32 - year - old partner , Carrie Symonds , who is pregnant , had been tested .
ISOLATING IN DOWNING STREET
Queen Elizabeth last saw Johnson on March 11 and she remains in good health , Buckingham Palace said .
“ The queen last saw the PM on the 11th March and is following all the appropriate advice with regards to her welfare , ” a palace spokesman said .
Previously the government has said that Johnson has the option to delegate to Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab if needed .
“ The prime minister was tested for coronavirus on the personal advice of England ’s Chief Medical Officer , Professor Chris Whitty , ” a Downing Street spokesman said .
“ The test was carried out in No 10 by NHS staff and the result of the test was positive , ” the spokesman said .
So far , 578 people in the United Kingdom have died after testing positive for coronavirus and the number of confirmed cases has risen to 11,658 .
The death toll is the seventh highest in the world , after Italy , Spain , China , Iran , France and the United States , according to a Reuters tally .
Prince Charles , the 71 - year - old heir to the British throne , tested positive for coronavirus earlier this week .
He is in good health and is now self - isolating at his residence in Scotland with mild symptoms along with his wife Camilla , who tested negative , his office said .
Reporting by Guy Faulconbridge , Kate Holton , William James and Elizabeth Piper ; Editing by Michael Holden and
Frances Kerry

British PM Boris Johnson tests positive for coronavirus .
2020-03-27 12:28:56 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has tested positive for coronavirus and is self - isolating at his Downing Street residence but said he would still lead the government ’s response to the accelerating outbreak .
Britain 's Prime Minister Boris Johnson leaves Downing Street , as the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues .
London , Britain , March 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Hannah Mckay / Files Johnson , 55 , experienced mild symptoms on Thursday - a day after he answered at the prime minister ’s weekly question - and - answer session in parliament ’s House of Commons chamber .
“ I ’ve taken a test .
That has come out positive , ” Johnson said on Friday in a video statement broadcast on Twitter .
“ I ’ve developed mild symptoms of the coronavirus .
That ’s to say - a temperature and a persistent cough .
“ So I am working from home .
I ’m self - isolating , ” Johnson said .
“ Be in no doubt that I can continue , thanks to the wizardry of modern technology , to communicate with all my top team to lead the national fightback against coronavirus . ”
Johnson chaired a government meeting on the coronavirus on Friday morning via video conference .
It was not immediately clear how many Downing Street staff and senior ministers would now need to isolate themselves given that many have had contact with Johnson over recent days and weeks .
His finance minister , Rishi Sunak , is not self - isolating , a Treasury source said .
Britons paid tribute to health workers on Thursday evening , clapping and cheering from doorways and windows .
Johnson and Sunak took part , but came out of separate entrances on Downing Street and did not come into close contact , according to a Reuters photographer at the scene .
It was not immediately clear whether Johnson ’s 32 - year - old partner , Carrie Symonds , who is pregnant , had been tested .
ISOLATING IN DOWNING STREET
Queen Elizabeth last saw Johnson on March 11 and she remains in good health , Buckingham Palace said .
“ The queen last saw the PM on the 11th March and is following all the appropriate advice with regards to her welfare , ” a palace spokesman said .
Previously the government has said that Johnson has the option to delegate to Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab if needed .
“ The prime minister was tested for coronavirus on the personal advice of England ’s Chief Medical Officer , Professor Chris Whitty , ” a Downing Street spokesman said .
“ The test was carried out in No 10 by NHS staff and the result of the test was positive , ” the spokesman said .
So far , 578 people in the United Kingdom have died after testing positive for coronavirus and the number of confirmed cases has risen to 11,658 .
The death toll is the seventh highest in the world , after Italy , Spain , China , Iran , France and the United States , according to a Reuters tally .
Prince Charles , the 71 - year - old heir to the British throne , tested positive for coronavirus earlier this week .
He is in good health and is now self - isolating at his residence in Scotland with mild symptoms along with his wife Camilla , who tested negative , his office said .
Reporting by Guy Faulconbridge , Kate Holton , William James and Elizabeth Piper ; Editing by Michael Holden and
Frances Kerry

Goldman, Morgan Stanley receive approvals for majority stakes in China ventures .
2020-03-27 11:42:05 +00:00 .
BEIJING / HONG KONG ( Reuters ) - Goldman Sachs ( GS.N ) and Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ) said on Friday they had received the final regulatory approvals to take majority stakes in their China securities joint ventures , as Beijing continues to open its financial sector to foreigners .
FILE PHOTO :
A sign is displayed on the Morgan Stanley building in New York U.S. , July 16 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Lucas Jackson / File Photo
The approvals come as policymakers and authorities step up efforts to shield the world ’s second - largest economy , battered by the coronavirus pandemic .
Goldman and Morgan Stanley received the nods from the China Securities Regulatory Commission to raise their stakes in Goldman Sachs Gao Hua Securities and Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities from 33 % to 51 % and 49 % to 51 % , respectively , the two Wall Street banks said in separate statements .
Majority ownership of the joint ventures potentially allows the U.S. banks to expand operations in China , and better integrate them with their global businesses .
Goldman in 2004 set up its China securities JV with Beijing Gao Hua Securities , which was co - founded by veteran Chinese banker Fang Fenglei .
Unlike most of the other China JVs , Goldman already has day - to - day operational control of its JV , which offers investment banking services such as equities and bond underwriting and deal advice .
Despite that managerial control , Goldman has long made it clear it would eventually seek to take a majority stake too .
Shanghai - based Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities was established in 2011 and its existing operations include underwriting and sponsoring equity and debt offerings as well as proprietary trading of bonds , it says on its website .
China raised the cap on foreign ownership of securities operations to 51 % in 2018 .
Until then international banks had been allowed only minority stakes in their Chinese joint ventures .
Swiss lender UBS ( UBSG.S ) became the first foreign bank to hold a majority stake in a China securities business under the new rules in 2018 .
Japanese brokerage Nomura Holdings ( 8604.T ) and JPMorgan ( JPM.N ) got their approvals last year .
Credit Suisse ( CSGN.S ) is still awaiting approval after it submitted an application for majority - controlled securities JV .
Beijing promised to scrap foreign ownership caps on securities firms and mutual funds for foreign investors from April 1 , in an interim Sino - U.S. trade deal signed in January .
The approvals for Goldman and Morgan Stanley come a day before China temporarily bars entry for most foreigners as an interim measure in response to the coronavirus epidemic .
Market participants said the thumbs up was a sign the country is continuing with the formal opening up of financial markets , despite the virus .
Last Friday , Shanghai said some of the world ’s top financial institutions , including BlackRock and JPMorgan , were stepping up investments in China ’s financial hub , undeterred by the pandemic .
Reporting by Zhang Yan in Beijing and Julie Zhu in Hong Kong ; Additional reporting by Alun John in Hong Kong ;
Editing by Edmund Blair , Clarence Fernandez and Mark Potter

Shanghai aluminium stocks fall for 1st time in 2020; lead at 15-month low .
2020-03-27 10:52:58 +00:00 .
* ShFE aluminium stocks down 1.1 % but remain above 500,000 T
* Copper , steel inventories fall for second straight week
* Lead stocks slip below 14,000 T , lowest since Dec 2018
By Tom Daly and Min Zhang BEIJING , March 27 ( Reuters ) - Aluminium stocks monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange ( ShFE ) have fallen for the first time in three months , data showed on Friday , although experts say this does not necessarily mean China ’s coronavirus - hit demand is catching up with supply .
Inventories of aluminium in ShFE warehouses across nine Chinese cities and regions slipped by 5,922 tonnes , or 1.1 % from the previous week to 528,072 tonnes , having previously risen non - stop since Dec. 27 .
But Wang Hongfei , manager of the aluminium department at Antaike , noted ShFE data only covered stocks for futures delivery and not spot inventory for immediate purchase , and said the Chinese research house ’s own numbers were higher .
“ Actually , spot inventories have n’t fallen at all .
They are still rising , ” Wang said , adding there was a lot of “ hidden inventory ” on the market .
Wen Xianjun , vice chairman of the China Nonferrous Metals Industry Association , also said aluminium stocks were still rising .
While most processing plants were back at work now , their “ orders are not too good ” , he added .
Exacerbating the situation is the spread of the coronavirus virus across the globe .
China is the world ’s top aluminium exporter but its shipments are set to drop as overseas consumption falters , while demand for steel- and copper - intensive goods like home appliances is also likely to suffer .
ShFE copper inventories fell for a second week , by 3.5 % to 364,040 tonnes .
Orders over the past week were “ ordinary ” , said a manager of a copper tube maker .
He did not rule out a rebound in consumption ahead , however , noting the peak summer season for air conditioners was approaching .
Steel products held by traders in major Chinese cities also fell again , by 4.2 % to 24.29 million tonnes as of Thursday , according to Mysteel .
Stocks are still seasonally high , with hot - rolled and cold - rolled steel , used in cars and home appliances , down only 0.7 % and 2 % , respectively .
“ Overseas demand is limited now , ” said a steel trader in the southeastern city of Xiamen .
“ We can only digest the stocks domestically , though it wo n’t be fast . ”
China this month raised the export tax rebate on some steel products to the maximum 13 % to boost sales after virus - disrupted shipments fell 27 % in the first two months of 2020 .
ShFE lead inventories , meanwhile , have now fallen for five straight weeks to their lowest since December 2018 .
“ Many secondary lead smelters are still under - utilised now due to the short supply of battery scrap , while demand is recovering , ” sending stocks lower , said CRU analyst Dina Yu .
Reporting by Min Zhang and Tom Daly ; additional reporting by Mai Nguyen in Singapore
Editing by Robert Birsel

LafargeHolcim warns on profit as coronavirus hits building sector .
2020-03-27 09:45:16 +00:00 .
ZURICH ( Reuters ) - LafargeHolcim ditched its profit forecast for 2020 and announced spending cuts to counter the downturn in construction caused by the coronavirus , the world ’s biggest cement maker said on Friday , adding it was not planning job cuts for now .
The logo of LafargeHolcim , the world 's largest cement maker , is seen at its headquarters in Zurich , Switzerland March 2 , 2017 .
REUTERS /
Arnd Wiegmann
The Swiss company said it was trimming capital expenditure by at least 400 million Swiss francs ( $ 416.5 million ) compared to 2019 and reducing fixed costs by at least 300 million francs .
“ There is no decision whatsoever to let people go or to cut jobs , ” a company spokesman said .
LafargeHolcim employs 70,000 people globally .
“ In the current situation , hiring people is not the first priority , but there is not a hiring freeze . ”
LafargeHolcim , whose share price has slumped by a third this year , is the latest construction company to warn about the epidemic ’s impact after HeidelbergCement froze hiring and shut plants in Italy last week .
LafargeHolcim scrapped its guidance for annual sales to rise by 3%-5 % and a recurring operating profit growth target of at least 7 % .
Although a recovery was beginning in China , it was experiencing disruptions elsewhere , it said .
“ In most of the other key markets , the construction sector is disrupted and we forecast significant volume declines in April and May , ” it said , predicting “ a significant negative impact ” on second - quarter business .
LafargeHolcim declined to comment on how many staff had contracted the disease .
Most of its 2,000 plants globally were still operating fully , the company added .
It had previously been confident about its ability to weather the impact of the coronavirus .
Chief Executive
Jan Jenisch said last month he expected to shake off the massive slowdown in China later this year , while other regions had not then been affected .
Jenisch did not comment on Friday , when the company said the situation was volatile and differed greatly from country to country .
It said it had strong liquidity of 8 billion francs , helped by the sale of assets last year , and would give a full assessment of the virus impact with first - quarter results on April 30 .
It still planned to hold it annual general meeting on May 12 , although shareholders will not be allowed to attend in person given Swiss rules limiting public gatherings .
( $ 1 = 0.9604 Swiss francs )
Reporting by John Revill and Oliver Hirt ; editing by John Miller and
Barbara Lewis

India lost time in race to keep coronavirus health staff safe, groups say .
2020-03-27 09:44:39 +00:00 .
MUMBAI / NEW DELHI ( Reuters ) -
As the coronavirus spread across Asia in February , Indian manufacturers of personal protective equipment contacted the health ministry urging the government to stock up .
FILE PHOTO :
A paramedic staff member enters a newly setup isolation ward for the people who suffer symptoms of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , at a hospital in Kolkata , India , March 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Rupak De Chowdhuri / File
Photo
They got no response , according to Sanjeev Relhan and Rajiv Nath , the heads of two health - sector manufacturing associations .
They and other manufacturers now say such poor communication led to the squandering of precious time in the race to protect health workers fighting the coronavirus .
The health ministry did not respond to multiple requests for comment .
India has reported 724 cases of the coronavirus including 17 deaths and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has locked down the entire country for three weeks in the world ’s most ambitious bid to control the epidemic .
Rehlan said they met textile ministry officials on March 16 , only to learn equipment specifications had already been set .
Then , on Saturday , Nath said he was informed by a health ministry official that a tender for the equipment had been issued 16 days earlier , but many manufacturers had not been aware of it .
“ We sent daily emails from March 13 until March 21 .
If the tender was available why did n’t they share it ? ” said Relhan , chair of the Preventive Wear Manufacturer Association of India .
The government banned exports of personal protective equipment on Jan. 31 to avoid shortages but other manufacturers of the equipment rued what they saw as a waste of time in getting ready to face the virus .
“ If we were preparing ourselves from February everyone would have been ready , ” said Smita Shah , managing director of Mediklin Healthcare .
For instance , specifications India mandated included seam - tapping , which requires importing machines - a near - impossible feat now that India is under lockdown and global supply chains are frayed .
“ We could have imported some machines , or come up with some solution , ” said Relhan .
Now , medical staff lack sufficient masks , gloves and coveralls , according to the United Resident Doctor ’s Association India , which complained about the shortages in a letter to the prime minister on Wednesday .
“ Asking a health professional to work without these essentials is like asking a soldier to ... fight without a gun , ” the association said .
The group ’s president , Dr Manu Gautam , said he did not have shortage estimates , but added that at least eight health workers had been infected with the coronavirus , half of them at government health centers .
Now the lockdown is contributing to shortages as workers struggle to get to their plants , slowing production , manufacturers said .
The Ministry of Textiles acknowledged shortages in a March 18 meeting , according to minutes seen by Reuters .
India needed some 725,000 coveralls and 6 million N-95 masks but “ the rate of supply is not able to meet the rising demand ” , the ministry said in the document .
The Textile Ministry did not respond to requests for comment .
The government has centralised acquisition of equipment through state - owned healthcare product manufacturer HLL Lifecare .
A source at HLL Lifecare , who said it was only the health ministry that was authorized to brief media , said the company was working around the clock to provide equipment but the lockdown was slowing transport .

Gold eases on profit-taking, but set for best week since 2008 financial crisis .
2020-03-27 07:11:28 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Gold edged lower on Friday as investors booked profits , but was set for its best week since December 2008 as record high U.S. jobless claims due to the coronavirus fuelled hopes for more stimulus to stem the economic damage caused by the pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
Newly cast ingots of 99.99 percent pure gold are stored after weighing at the Krastsvetmet non - ferrous metals plant , one of the world 's largest producers in the precious metals industry , in the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk , Russia , November 22 , 2018 .
REUTERS / Ilya Naymushin / File Photo Autocatalysts platinum and palladium , meanwhile , were poised for their biggest weekly gains on record , as a lockdown in major producer South Africa stoked supply worries .
Spot gold fell 0.3 % to $ 1,624.41 per ounce by 0616 GMT , after five straight sessions of gains .
U.S. gold futures slipped 0.5 % to $ 1,643.30 per ounce .
Bullion has gained over 8.4 % so far this week , supported by weak U.S. unemployment data and the Federal Reserve ’s unprecedented economic stimulus measures .
“ I do n’t see any real reason to sell gold at the moment other than perhaps to book profits before the weekend , ” said Stephen Innes , chief market strategist at financial services firm AxiCorp .
“ Everything still looks good for gold except the dreaded need for distress sales . ”
The U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she expected the chamber to pass an estimated $ 2.2 trillion virus relief bill when it meets on Friday , following the Senate ’s approval on Wednesday .
Asian stocks rose as investors wagered policymakers will roll out additional stimulus measures to combat the pandemic after U.S. unemployment filings surged to record 3.28 million last week .
The data was supportive for gold as it fuelled expectations for more fiscal measures , more quantitative easing and more action by the Fed , said Avtar Sandu , a senior commodities manager at Phillip Futures .
The Fed ’s total balance sheet size exploded by more than half a trillion dollars in a single week , roughly twice the pace of the next - largest weekly expansion during the 2008 financial crisis .
Meanwhile , leaders of the Group of 20 major economies pledged on Thursday to inject more than $ 5 trillion into the global economy to limit job and income losses .
Gold market participants also kept a close eye on physical supply as virus - led lockdowns stalled supply chains .
China ’s net gold imports via Hong Kong halved in February from the previous month , as the outbreak slowed activity .
Palladium was up 1.8 % at $ 2,373.08 per ounce , having risen more than 44 % so far this week , while platinum rose 1.7 % to $ 748.51 per ounce and gained 22 % in the week .
Silver rose 1 % to $ 14.54 per ounce , heading for its best week since 2008 .
Reporting by Shreyansi Singh and K. Sathya Narayanan in Bengaluru ; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu
Aditya Soni

Quarantine a boon for some Hong Kong hotels as thousands return .
2020-03-27 06:51:48 +00:00 .
HONG KONG ( Reuters ) -
As thousands of Hong Kong citizens and expatriates return to the city , many are seeking refuge in hotels , fearful that cramped apartments in one of the world ’s most expensive property markets could put families or flatmates at risk .
Guests are seen through the windows of a hotel , following the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Hong Kong , China March 25 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Tyrone Siu Social distancing is tough in Hong Kong , where the bulk of the city ’s 7.4 million population lives in flats that on average are no bigger than 500 square feet ( 46 square metres ) .
The concerns have triggered a spike in occupancy rates for those Hong Kong hotels prepared to take self - quarantine guests , even as most of the industry grapples with a devastating slump due to coronavirus .
One expatriate who has lived in Hong Kong for over 12 years opted to self - quarantine in a hotel when returning last week , worried that going back to his two - bedroom apartment could put his wife and two daughters at risk .
“ In case I had it , I did n’t want to get the girls sick , ” he said , declining to be identified due to the sensitivity around the issue .
Even before the government implemented a compulsory 14 - day quarantine for all arrivals on March 19 , many returnees had voluntarily self - isolated in hotel rooms .
The numbers returning have been swelled by an influx of students arriving from overseas where the virus is spreading rapidly , at a time when Hong Kong ’s infection rate remains relatively low , officials said .
More than 77,000 Hong Kong citizens have returned since the mandatory quarantine was imposed , according to government figures .
A four - star hotel on Hong Kong Island , which had 15 % of its rooms occupied at the start of the virus outbreak in January , said 60 % of its rooms were now full .
“ Ninety percent of our guests are here for quarantine reasons , ” said a sales official at the hotel , who declined to be named because she was not authorized to speak to the media .
The rest of the hotel ’s rooms had been left unoccupied intentionally for social distancing purposes , she said , adding that in hotels which did not implement such measures the occupancy rate could be as high as 90 % .
Packages for a 14 - day stay in a standard room at the Dorsett Hotel in its properties in the densely populated districts of Mong Kok and Wan Chai , costing cost HK$5,600 ( $ 718 ) and HK$6,888 , respectively , are fully booked until early April .
Dorsett Hotel told Reuters it had assigned a certain number of standard rooms for students ’ self - quarantine purposes .
By doing do , it hopes to “ further reduce the chance of outbreak in the community , ” it added .
The hotel said it had two air purifiers on each floor and a separate check – in area and elevators for quarantine guests .
Lawmaker Yiu Si - wing , who represents the tourism industry , told reporters last week that at least 14 hotels are together offering 1,000 rooms for the quarantine arrangement .
However , some travelers have complained on social media of being stranded at Hong Kong ’s international airport because they could not find a hotel room .
“ Does this mean I need to sleep in the airport for 14 days ? ” one post said .
Additonal reporting by Farah Master , Pak Yiu and Ryan Chang ;
Editing by Anne Marie Roantree and Richard Pullin

FOREX-Dollar climbs down as panic subsides, on course for biggest loss in decade .
2020-03-27 00:35:03 +00:00 .
* Dollar slips on U.S. stimulus * Dollar index on track for biggest loss in decade
* Market could see more volatility toward month - end
* Graphic : World FX rates in 2020 tmsnrt.rs/2RBWI5E
By Hideyuki Sano
TOKYO , March 27 ( Reuters ) -
The dollar is on track for its biggest weekly fall in more than a decade on Friday as a series of stimulus steps around the world , including a $ 2.2 trillion U.S. package , calmed a panic over a global recession following the coronavirus outbreak .
Data showing an unprecedented rise in U.S. jobless claims underscored the virus ’ devastating impact on the economy , but subsequent rise in Wall Street shares raised hopes a torrent of selling in risk assets may have run its course for now .
The dollar dropped to 109.42 yen , shedding 1.44 % overnight while the euro also jumped 1.40 % on Thursday and last stood at $ 1.1025 .
The biggest mover among major currencies was sterling , which rose 2.8 % overnight before giving up part of that gain in early Asian trade .
The British pound last stood at $ 1.2183 .
An easing in dollar funding conditions is helping to reduce demand for the dollar .
The number of Americans filing claims for unemployment benefits surged to a record of more than 3.28 million last week as strict measures to contain the coronavirus pandemic unleashed a wave of layoffs .
While that eclipsed the previous record of 695,000 set in 1982 and was up 3 million from last week , it was below investors ’ worst fears .
The focus stayed on an unprecedented $ 2.2 trillion stimulus expected to be approved by the U.S. House of Representatives on Friday .
The dollar ’s index against six other major currencies lost 1.5 % , its biggest daily fall in almost four years .
So far this week it is down 2.9 % .
If sustained by the end of U.S. trade , that would mark the biggest weekly decline since 2009 , underscoring the currency market ’s extreme volatility after last week racking up its biggest weekly gain since the global financial crisis more than a decade ago .
Highly choppy trade could continue towards the end of month , when there tend to be large flows from corporate and investors to hedge their currency exposures .
In particular , many asset managers may need to adjust their currency hedge positions after wild swings in global share prices .
The dollar ’s rises until last week , in particular against the Australian dollar and the New Zealand dollar were primarily driven by such currency hedge adjustment , said analysts at National Bank of Australia in report .
“ We can well believe that we are for an extremely rocky ride in the currency markets between now and month end , ” they said .
“ Some will not yet have adjusted , and some will now find themselves under - hedged given the big equity reversal so far this week .
And , some may be looking to implement changes to strategic hedge ratios at the same time .
Buckle up . ”
The Australian dollar traded at $ 0.6068 , having gained more than 10 % from its 17 - year low of $ 0.5510 touched on Thursday last week .
The New Zealand dollar stood at $ 0.5974 .
( Reporting by Hideyuki Sano ;
Editing by Lincoln Feast )

Big banks reassure staff about potential job cuts .
2020-03-26 21:14:00 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Big banks are postponing decisions about staff cuts as the coronavirus hits their businesses hard , with executives saying they are unsure how long the outbreak will hurt the economy and worried about being unprepared if business suddenly snaps back .
FILE PHOTO :
A sign is displayed on the Morgan Stanley building in New York U.S. , July 16 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Lucas Jackson / File Photo Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc ( GS.N ) , Deutsche Bank ( DBKGn . DE ) , HSBC Holdings PLC ( HSBA.L ) and Citigroup Inc ( C.N ) were among those on Thursday reassuring staff privately or through public statements that job cuts are not on the table .
Banks are hesitant to make changes because the future is so uncertain , executives and external consultants told Reuters .
“ You would be fibbing if you said we can really make guarantees or assurances to you , ” said compensation consultant Alan Johnson .
“ There ’s a danger of making promises that you ultimately ca n’t keep .
Nobody knows . ”
There could be a sudden surge in activity once cities re - open , people get back to work and markets normalize in a few months – leaving banks unprepared if they fire staff that seem unnecessary at the moment .
Or , the coronavirus could cause a slow , grinding global recession that lasts much longer .
Banks are will be also hesitant to announce layoffs in the event that the pandemic leads to staffing shortages as employees fall ill or choose to stay home , a bank source said .
The industry is also aware of the politics of firing people while benefiting from Federal Reserve progams that have injected trillions of dollars into markets .
The eight biggest U.S. banks decided to stop share repurchases and may cut dividends to show they are not using money unwisely .
Wall Street is also expected to slash bonuses this year .
[ nL1N2BB2LP ]
A prominent group of socially - minded investors issued a statement on Thursday urging companies to offer paid leave and remote work options during the coronavirus – anything they can do to avoid job cuts .
Morgan Stanley has made the boldest statement so far among big banks , with Chief Executive James Gorman saying jobs are secure through the rest of 2020 .
“ At the end of this year , we will know what we are dealing with , and hopefully the economy will be on the mend by then , ” Gorman said in a memo to all 57,000 employees on Thursday .
Citigroup CEO Mike Corbat ordered a suspension of any planned staff cuts , a person familiar with the matter told Reuters .
A Goldman Sachs spokeswoman said that bank has not made any decisions to cut staff this year because of the coronavirus .
HSBC said it would hold off on previously announced reductions .
JPMorgan Chase
Co ( JPM.N ) declined to comment and Bank of America Corp did not respond to a request for comment .
Banks are usually quick to fire staff in hard times and hire again when economic or market conditions get better .
The coronavirus is an oddity because it is not clear how long the economic impact will last ; because banks are , for once , not the center of the crisis and therefore financially - sound ; and because the industry is especially sensitive to the politics of cutting staff at a time when the rest of the world is suffering .
“ Way too many people have lost their jobs overnight , ” Gorman wrote in a note to staff .
“ Aside from a performance issue or a breach of the code of conduct , your jobs are secure . ”
Reporting by Elizabeth Dilts and Imani Moise in New York ; Additional reporting by Noor Zainab Hussain in Bengaluru and David French and Ross Kerber in New York ; Writing by Lauren Tara LaCapra ; Editing by Bernard Orr and Richard Chang

banks borrow at discount window after Fed offers stigma relief .
2020-03-26 21:07:58 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
With encouragement from the Federal Reserve , U.S. banks have turned to a long - shunned lending facility known as the discount window to borrow $ 50.8 billion , according to data the central bank released on Thursday .
FILE PHOTO :
The Federal Reserve building pictured in Washington , U.S. , July 16 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Leah Millis / File Photo
The outstanding balance was the most since April 2009 and a reversal from negligible sums since the financial crisis .
Borrowing at the discount window has long carried a stigma because of speculation about which banks were using it and whether they on verge of dumping assets at fire sale prices .
The Fed changed its disclosure practices last week to help curb such speculation .
It will no longer show which of the 12 district banks in the Federal Reserve System made the loans in the national total .
No longer , for example , can someone see a big increase in discount window borrowing through the Federal Reserve Bank in Kansas City and guess which bank might be having trouble with energy loans .
The Fed , in a note on the weekly release , said the change was made to support its goal announced on March 15 to use the discount window with other tools to encourage banks to lend to households and business during the coronavirus pandemic .
At the same time , the Fed slashed its target for its key interest rate by 1 percentage point to a range of 0 % to 0.25 % .
It set the rate on discount window loans at 0.25 % , basically eliminating the usual 0.50 % extra penalty .
Healthy banks can get instant cash from the discount window in exchange for collateral , usually pools of loans .
If the banks had to asked other lenders for cash it could spark doubts about their condition and feed a selling panic .
JPMorgan Chase
Co ( JPM.N ) Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said last month that his bank would use the discount window to help reduce the stigma .
Under the Dodd - Frank financial reform law , the Federal Reserve must disclose within two years which banks used the window , how much they borrowed and when .
Walker Todd , a visiting professor at the University of Akron and a former lawyer for regional Fed banks , said the Fed ’s shift to obscure details from weekly borrowing amounts violates the spirit of transparency of the law .
“ The Fed misreads the situation if it thinks this is in the public interest .
Everyone expects the numbers to be large , so disclosure would cause no panic . ”
Reporting by David Henry in New York ;
Editing by Tom Brown

Turkey could impose stay-at-home order if coronavirus outbreak worsens .
2020-03-26 19:56:59 +00:00 .
ANKARA ( Reuters ) - Turkey could order the public to stay at home if coronavirus infections continue to spread , the government said on Thursday as it clamped down further on medical equipment leaving the country .
A man wearing a protective face mask and a woman are seen on a train as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , Istanbul , Turkey , March 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Umit Bektas
The government announced such a measure for people older than 65 over the weekend , but not for the general public as some other countries have done .
Istanbul ’s mayor urged national authorities to do so on Thursday , saying nearly a million people were still using public transport in the country ’s largest city .
The respiratory disease caused by the new coronavirus has killed 59 people in Turkey after cases surged in two weeks to 2,433 .
( Click here for a graphic of the virus ’s global spread )
“ Complete social isolation is always on our agenda , ” Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu said on AHaber TV .
Asked whether a complete curfew would be announced , he said : “ If we can not prevent the epidemic with these measures , we can of course take the highest measure . ”
To contain the virus , Ankara has closed schools , cafes and bars , banned mass prayers , and suspended sports matches and flights .
President Tayyip Erdogan said Turkey , which has a population of about 83 million , would overcome the coronavirus outbreak in two to three weeks .
However , Istanbul Mayor Ekrem Imamoglu called on the government to impose a general stay - at - home order , at least in his city if it was not possible nationwide .
“ We are in the most critical phase of the outbreak , ” he said on Twitter .
“ If the necessary steps are n’t taken today , it is evident there will be disappointment in the future . ”
Separately on Thursday , the government decreed that companies now need permission from authorities to export medical tools used for respiratory support , given rising domestic demand .
The rule covers the export of ventilators and related gear , oxygen concentrators , intubation tubes and intensive care monitors , and other medical equipment .
Ankara previously said it would stop exporting locally made face masks .
Turkey ’s Higher Education Council said there would be no face - to - face classes in the spring term , distance learning would continue and university exams would be postponed to July 25 - 26 .
Ankara has also rolled out measures to cushion the blow to its economy , announcing a $ 15 billion economic package including support for businesses and hard - hit sectors such as tourism and transport .
The central bank said it was monitoring the economic impact of the outbreak and would deploy all policy tools resolutely to ensure the smooth functioning of financial markets .
And the Turkish banking watchdog has decided to provide flexibility for banks ’ liquidity ratio requirements until Dec. 31 due to the outbreak , it said .
Additional reporting by Ali Kucukgocmen , Ezgi Erkoyun and Tuvan Gumrukcu ;
Editing by Jonathan Spicer , Pravin Char and Alex Richardson

British firm says antibody test is being validated .
2020-03-26 19:56:59 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - A British company behind a 10 - minute coronavirus antibody test , which will cost about a $ 1 , has begun sending prototypes to laboratories for validation , which could be a game - changer in the fight against the pandemic .
A computer image created by Nexu Science Communication together with Trinity College in Dublin , shows a model structurally representative of a betacoronavirus which is the type of virus linked to COVID-19 , better known as the coronavirus linked to the Wuhan outbreak , shared with Reuters on February 18 , 2020 .
NEXU
Science Communication / via REUTERS Health technology firm Mologic , which created one of the first at - home pregnancy tests , is aiming for the test to be rolled out by as early as June if the trials are successful .
Antibody tests are designed to establish whether people have previously been infected , as opposed to antigen tests which show if someone actually has the COVID-19 disease caused by the virus .
Mologic said assessment and validation of its COVID-19 diagnostic test had begun this week at the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine and St Georges hospital , and that global partners would also examine the prototypes .
Joe Fitchett , Mologic medical director , said that while many companies were working on virus diagnostics , the aim was to create cheap , widely available tests .
“ They must be made available to the vulnerable and most precious in society , in the UK or elsewhere , ” he told Reuters .
“ I would be really disappointed to see a good test that is shown to work to be sold on Amazon only be used by a tiny proportion of the population . ”
GAME - CHANGER
Britain has bought 3.5 million antibody testing kits from different suppliers , and is currently making sure they work before distributing them .
A health official told lawmakers on Wednesday that such test kits would be available within days to be sent to households , perhaps via Amazon , saying that an unnamed prototype was being validated in Oxford this week .
But officials are cautious about the trade - off between producing something as quickly as possible and making sure that the tests work .
Chief Medical Officer Chris Whitty later dampened expectations of quick widespread availability for the tests , saying inaccurate tests would be dangerous .
“ ( The ) technology is quite close , and it ’s being evaluated this week , but it ’s not there ...
The one thing that ’s worse than no test is a bad test , ” Whitty said .
“ I do not think ...
that this is something we ’ll suddenly be ordering on the internet next week . ”
Asked why Britain bought 3.5 million tests which might not work , Prime Minister Boris Johnson ’s spokesman said : “ If we are able to find an antibody test which works that could be a game - changer . ”
“ For that reason you will understand that government is doing everything that it can to seek to find a test which works , ” he added .
Mologic , which is based near Bedford , north of London , said that after assessment in Britain , the prototypes would be shipped to validation partners in China , the United States , Malaysia , Spain , Brazil and Senegal .
Fitchett said his company had not received any orders from the UK government and was cautious that other tests may be ready to roll out in Britain in days .
“ Where the confusion has been , it has been made to sound like it is confirmed or imminent .
And for me that is very problematic , ” he said .
“ You need to be clear about the validation requirements . ”
Reporting by Alistair Smout and Andrew MacAskill , additional reporting by Kylie MacLellan ; editing by Stephen Addison and
Alexandra Hudson

Crazy haircut? Shave? Americans in coronavirus lockdown try out makeovers .
2020-03-26 17:25:01 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) - Jacob Kunthara ’s wife and three adult children had never seen him without the mustache he sported for 45 years .
During Coronavirus lockdown this week at home in Gilbert , Arizona , he shaved and covered up with a face mask , which he whipped off at dinner to shock his entire family .
Selfies of Ed Maudlin taken before and after he shaved his beard during a lockdown to prevent coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) spread in Indianapolis , Indiana , U.S. , March 24 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 24 , 2020 Ed Maudlin / Handout via REUTERS
Fiona
Riebeling of New Haven , Connecticut , used a fork , barbeque skewer and nail scissors to transform her sleek long hair into jaunty bangs .
Across the U.S. , the COVID-19 “ stay at home ” order with no end in sight has been seen by many as a once - in - a - lifetime chance to experiment with a dramatically different look , knowing that if the new image is a flop , they have several weeks behind closed doors to grow back or restyle the hair on their faces or heads .
“ This is the most radical thing I ’ve done ever , ” said Kunthara , 62 , a civil engineer whose home is about 25 miles ( 40 km ) southeast of Phoenix .
After being forced to work at home for a week , Kunthara wielded his razor last weekend and then donned a face mask for a pre - dinner family prayer session , which ended in his stunning facial strip - tease .
“ I thought , ‘ Maybe this is the best time to try something .
I ’m home , we can not go anywhere , ’ ” Kunthara said .
Riebling said she had to improvise her haircut after watching a YouTube tutorial and realizing she had none of the proper tools .
“ I scrounged around my apartment and did it ‘ Little Mermaid ’ style with thingamabobs , ” said Riebeling , 23 , a pre - school teacher , referring to the Disney movie in which a mermaid combs her hair using a fork she finds in a sunken ship .
“ Being in quarantine takes off a lot of the pressure that you normally might feel going out in public and worrying about your appearance , ” said Riebeling , who snipped away during a video conference call with two girlfriends also stuck in their homes , including an investment banker in New York and an occupational therapy student in Chicago .
“ We ’re limited right now in our movement and what we can do .
That ’s scary for a lot of people .
To find places where you can feel empowered and make decisions about yourself , your body , how you choose to be in the world is a great way of reminding yourself that you are in control of as much as you can be , ” Riebeling said .
When an Indianapolis call center deployed staff to work at home last week , employee Ed Maudlin scratched his years - old bushy beard and thought , “ I wonder what I look like under there ? ”
Knowing only his girlfriend and whoever he chose to share his photos with online would see him before his office reopens in “ at least a month , ” Maudlin this week shaved his beard and his head .
“ I decided to go with the full all - over - Nobody will know , ” said Maudlin , 45 , who said he expects facial and head hair will grow back by the time he ’s returned to a shared office .
“ I figure I will come out of this looking like maybe I need a bit of a haircut rather than looking like Tom Hanks on the island , ” said Maudlin referring to the role Hanks , who this month became one of the first celebrities to test positive for COVID-19 , played in the 2000 film “ Cast Away . ”
Reporting by Barbara Goldberg in New York ;
Editing by David Gregorio

Brazil's Petrobras cuts production, capex amid coronavirus outbreak .
2020-03-26 17:12:02 +00:00 .
RIO DE JANEIRO ( Reuters ) - Brazil ’s Petrobras said on Thursday it would cut oil production by 100,000 barrels per day , or around 3 % , making it the first major state - run oil company to announce a significant reduction in output in response to the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
A logo of Brazil 's state - run Petrobras oil company is seen at its headquarters in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil October 16 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Sergio Moraes / File Photo
In a securities filing , Petroleo Brasileiro SA ( PETR4.SA ) , as the firm is formally known , said it also delayed a dividend payment and slashed 2020 investments by nearly a third to $ 8.5 billion .
While the production cut only lasts until the end of March and is relatively small for Petrobras , which produced over 3 million barrels of oil equivalent per day ( boepd ) in the fourth quarter , the firm left the door open to further reductions as it monitors the market .
As part of those cuts , the firm will idle some shallow - water platforms with higher production costs , which are responsible for 23,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) of output .
Petrobras ’ capex reduction comes after various other major oil companies , including Chevron Corp ( CVX.N ) , announced similar measures .
Crude oil prices have crashed by 60 % since January as Saudi Arabia and Russia battled for their share of a market that has already slumped and seen demand shrink amid the coronavirus pandemic .
Demand worldwide is expected to fall by more than 12 million bpd , or more than 10 % of daily demand .
Petrobras did not announce any changes to plans to sell $ 20 billion to $ 30 billion in assets by 2024 in a bid to reduce debt , a key component of its five - year business plan .
On a conference call with investors and analysts on Thursday , Petrobras Chief Executive Roberto Castello Branco said he had not received any indication that there was less demand among potential buyers for Petrobras assets .
Downstream Chief Anelise Lara added that she did not believe that recent market developments would affect the prices of eight refineries the firm is selling , a process expected to fetch several billion dollars .
Executives said they were renegotiating contracts with service firms and analyzing potential changes to individual investments on a daily basis .
But , they added , they were reticent about making long - term adjustments given ongoing market uncertainties .
Still , Castello Branco said the company was not forecasting a “ significant recovery ” in oil prices barring some unforeseen event .
In its Thursday filing , Petrobras also said it was delaying a 1.7 billion - real ( $ 336 million ) dividend payment scheduled for May 20 until Dec. 15 .
Its next general shareholders meeting is set to be delayed by three days , from April 24 to April 27 .
In addition to capex cuts , the firm is also cutting 2 billion reais in operational expenditures in the short term by suspending new contracting processes for 90 days , among other measures .
Petrobras also said it is drawing $ 700 million from its revolving credit lines , in addition to the $ 8 billion it said it would draw last week .
Brazil - listed preferred shares in Petrobras were up 1.3 % in afternoon trade .
The country 's benchmark Bovespa equities index .BVSP was up 3.3 % .
( $ 1 = 5.06 reais )
Reporting by Gram Slattery ;
Editing by Bernadette Baum and Steve Orlofsky

UPDATE 2-Brazil's Oi sees coronavirus boosting broadband demand after weak Q4 results .
2020-03-26 17:12:02 +00:00 .
( Recasts adding CEO ’s remarks from conference call , analyst comments and share performance )
By Gabriela Mello SAO PAULO , March 26 ( Reuters ) - Brazil ’s biggest fixed - line carrier Oi SA sees an increasing demand for broadband services compensating for lower mobile sales during the coronavirus outbreak , its Chief Executive said on Thursday , after it reported a higher - than - expected loss .
All company - owned stores are now closed and Oi is currently monitoring traffic to activate new circuits if needed to guarantee stability in all its services .
“ A gigantic number of customers have a slow broadband speed , so with restrictions of movement we have an increase in demand that pretty much compensates for the negative impact on mobile sales , ” CEO Rodrigo Abreu said in an analysts call .
Oi , which filed for bankruptcy protection in June 2016 , reported a fourth - quarter loss of 2.3 billion reais ( $ 457 million ) compared with an average estimate of 1.1 billion - real loss compiled by Refinitiv , as revenue decline overshadowed cost - cutting efforts .
Earnings before interest , taxes , depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) came in line with expectations at 1.3 billion reais .
Preferred shares in Oi were up 6 % on Thursday afternoon , while common stocks were rising 3.8 % .
“ With all revenue lines still in decline mode year - on - year , we were n’t surprised , ” analysts at investment bank BTG Pactual wrote on Thursday .
On March 11 , rivals TIM Participações SA and Telefonica Brasil SA informed Oi ’s advisor Bank of America of their interest in kicking off talks for a potential acquisition of all or part of Oi ’s mobile division .
BTG Pactual calculates that Oi ’s Ebitda would grow to approximately 3 billion reais immediately after selling its mobile unit .
It is not immediately clear how the two plan to divide up the business , but market participants argue that TIM would most likely get a larger share of Oi ’s mobile business .
“ We are now doing our own analysis with advisors about the next steps in the sale of our mobile unit , ” Abreu said , adding the transaction depends on creditors approval .
He noted it is difficult to assess the full impact of the coronavirus crisis , but so far the company is on target with its strategic plan , including asset sales .
Oi expects to raise up to 1.5 billion reais by the end of the second - quarter with the divestment of mobile towers , data centers and real estate assets , according to Chief Financial Officer Camille Loyo Faria .
$ 1 = 5.0345 reais Reporting by Gabriela Mello ; Editing by Nick Zieminski and
David Gregorio

'All we have left is to hope and pray': Travellers stranded in airport by coronavirus .
2020-03-26 17:11:55 +00:00 .
BANGKOK ( Reuters ) - Russian hostel manager Valerie Azure has spent the past three nights sleeping on the floor of a Malaysian airport along with her young son , after Southeast Asian nations sealed borders and cancelled flights in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic .
Stranded tourists , Valerie and her son Kyri rest at the transit area of Kuala Lumpur International Airport Terminal 2 , after they were returned from Thailand due to new health certificate requirements amid coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) epidemic , in Sepang , Selangor State , Malaysia March 24 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 24 , 2020 .
Valerie Azure / Handout via REUTERS Azure , 31 , said more than a dozen people were stranded with her in the international airport in Kuala Lumpur , among hundreds marooned across the globe , according to media reports , as the virus plays havoc with travel plans .
After several weeks volunteering in a community centre for Afghan refugees in Malaysia , Azure said she and her nine - year - old son boarded an AirAsia flight for Thailand on Monday but were sent back after officials asked for blood tests proving they were free of the virus .
Malaysia has banned foreigners from entering since March 18 .
“ They said ‘ you ’re going to have to stay here ’ .
We thought maybe they are not being serious , in the beginning , ” Azure told Reuters via WhatsApp .
Azure said people from Vietnam , Pakistan , and the Philippines were stranded alongside her .
Airline staff bring them three meals a day of rice or noodles , and some water .
They sleep on makeshift beds fashioned from cardboard and fabric .
Azure , who has lived in Thailand for the past seven years and runs a hostel on Koh Tao island , said she can not afford to buy a $ 3,000 ticket to Russia , where she has no friends or family .
They were planning to stay until the end of Malaysia ’s ban on foreign entries , on March 31 , but it has since been extended until April 14 .
The Russian embassy told her they may be taken to an immigration detention centre , she said .
TAKEN CARE OF
A Malaysian airport spokeswoman said AirAsia had informed them Azure was working with her embassy to find a solution .
“ Please be rest assured that AirAsia is taking good care of their welfare and providing them sufficient meals during this difficult period , ” she said .
An AirAsia spokesperson said the safety and well being of guests and staff was its priority , but recommended any stranded travelers contact their embassies as the matter was “ outside the airline ’s control ” .
“ AirAsia remains fully compliant with all travel bans and restrictions in place resulting from the COVID-19 outbreak .
We continue to do everything possible to assist every guest affected by disruption during this unprecedented situation , ” the spokesperson said in an emailed statement .
Immigration department director - general Khairul Dzaimee Daud said in a text message they were looking into the case .
Azure said her son had been despondent since security officials confiscated his only toy , a ball .
“ They said ‘ This is an airport and not a playground ’ .
It was his only entertainment …
Now he ’s just sitting there , I ’m trying to keep him busy , to play games . ”
She worries about them falling sick in the airport .
“ I do n’t know how safe it is …
All we have left is just to hope and pray . ”
( This story has been refiled to fix typo in paragraph 12 )
Reporting by Poppy McPherson .
Additional reporting by Rozanna Latiff ; Editing by Gareth Jones and
Alex Richardson

French army moves up a gear in war against coronavirus .
2020-03-26 17:06:38 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) - A soldier ushers in a three - man medical team transporting a person on life - support toward an army field hospital .
Army nurses then order a complete sanitary check before the medical team can enter .
French President Emmanuel Macron wears a face mask during his visit to the military field hospital outside the Emile Muller Hospital in Mulhouse , eastern France March 25 , 2020 , during a strict lockdown in France to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) .
Cugnot Mathieu / Pool via REUTERS “ Glasses firm ?
Hands washed ?
In between fingers done ? ” the nurse calls out as the medical team complete their preparations before the first patient with coronavirus can enter the tent .
The scene would not look out of place in West Africa , where thousands of French troops are fighting Islamist militants .
But this is Mulhouse , eastern France , whose healthcare system has reached breaking point due to the coronavirus pandemic and where an army field hospital with 30 - intensive care beds is now helping to ease some of the burden .
It is also the starting gun given for the army to take on a bigger role as France braces for a coronavirus wave that has already killed 1,331 people and left more than 2,800 in intensive care .
France in total has 5,000 intensive care beds .
“ I am ordering Operation Resilience , ” President Emmanuel Macron said at the site of the hospital on Wednesday .
“ It will be dedicated to helping the population , supporting public services and confronting the epidemic at home and in our overseas territories . ”
The military has so far been used to transfer patients in critical condition , whether by plane from the east or warship from Corsica to other hospitals in France that have been less impacted .
That is about to change .
GREATER EFFICIENCY
“ Having a clear command structure for inter - army missions makes a lot of sense in terms of general coordination .
We know who will handle what and we can save a lot of time and efficiency , ” said a military source involved in the preparations .
The impact on French overseas ’ operations , where there are some 10,000 troops , including in Africa and the Middle East , is not expected to be great .
But highlighting just how serious the effort will be , the operation will be headed by France ’s top general and managed out of a command center used to coordinate the country ’s main external operations .
“ Nobody expects the army to resolve the crisis by itself , ” said a French military official .
“ Wherever we can be useful , we will be . ”
The army will not be called upon to ensure the strict confinement of people as has been the case in some other countries , officials said .
However , it will be used to protect strategic sites such as pharmacy depots and stockpiles of medical equipment and ventilators after a recent spate of thefts .
It will also broaden existing efforts to shuffle patients around the country and also in France ’s overseas ’ territories , where two warships were dispatched this week as the situation worsens there .
“ Our objective is to be able to respond to the needs expressed by the regional police headquarters which will collate the requests , ” army spokesman Colonel Frederic Barbry said .
“ The number of soldiers mobilized will depend on the needs expressed and will vary over time . ”
Writing by John Irish ;
Editing by Gareth Jones

Britain orders ventilators from vacuum-maker Dyson as F1 teams stand ready .
2020-03-26 14:24:03 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Britain has placed an emergency order of 10,000 ventilators designed at breakneck speed by bagless vacuum cleaner company Dyson , the first fruits of an industry - wide call to arms to prepare for the looming peak of the coronavirus outbreak .
Banners showing support for NHS staff are displayed at Stepping Hill Hospital , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , in Manchester , Britain , March 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Molly Darlington
In another industry effort , a consortium of companies in the aerospace and engineering sectors are working with seven Formula One racing teams to ramp up production of existing ventilator models , with a manufacturing launch date penned in for March 30 .
Ahead of an expected surge of cases that could overwhelm Britain ’s publicly funded health service , Prime Minister Boris Johnson made an urgent appeal to manufacturers 10 days ago to build ventilators to help keep patients alive .
Production of Dyson ’s new CoVent ventilator could start early next month but the government made clear the order was dependent on it passing safety and regulatory tests .
“ The core challenge was how to design and deliver a new , sophisticated medical product in volume and in an extremely short space of time , ” billionaire founder James Dyson said on Wednesday evening in an email to staff seen by Reuters .
“ The race is now on to get it into production . ”
Dyson is able to draw on the company ’s expertise in air movement , motors , power systems , manufacturing and supply chains to design and build an entirely new ventilator .
The company revolutionised the vacuum cleaner market with its bagless cyclonic device in the 1990s and has since gone on to build air purifiers , hand dryers and fans from its base in southwest England and manufacturing plants in Malaysia , Singapore and the Philippines .
TARGET :
30,000
The aerospace and engineering consortium , meanwhile , includes such names as Rolls - Royce ( RR.L ) , BAE ( BAES.L ) , Airbus ( AIR.PA ) and Siemens UK which will help existing medical device makers such as Penlon and Smiths Group to ramp up production .
It is waiting for the green light from government .
British engineer Babcock ( BAB.L ) has also joined forces with a leading medical equipment company and experts from London ’s Royal Brompton Hospital .
The companies have all sprung into action after the government said it needed another 30,000 ventilators to save the lives of patients who develop complications with COVID-19 .
The government is also acquiring the life - saving devices from private hospitals and international producers .
Britain currently has about 8,000 ventilators with another 8,000 on order to come into the health system in about a week
By 0900 GMT on Wednesday some 9,529 people had tested positive for the virus in the United Kingdom while 463 patients had died .
Britain has also bought 3.5 million antibody testing kits - largely used to determine if someone has already had the virus - and is currently making sure they work before distributing them .
Prototypes of an antibody test which could be a game - changer in the fight against the pandemic are being assessed and are ready to be optimised , the developer of the technology said on Thursday .
Many staff within the National Health Service ( NHS ) have not been tested , a major concern for health workers and a cause of mounting criticism of the government ’s response .
Additional reporting by Alistair Smout ;
Editing by Guy Faulconbridge , Stephen Addison and Pravin Char

Tour de France may go ahead without roadside spectators - sports minister .
2020-03-26 13:45:40 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) -
It is too soon to decide whether the Tour de France can go ahead amid the coronavirus pandemic , but if it does it may be without roadside spectators in order to minimise infection risk , the French sports minister said .
FILE PHOTO :
Cycling - Tour de France -
The 128 - km Stage 21 from Rambouillet to Paris Champs - Elysees - July 28 , 2019 - Team INEOS rider Egan Bernal of Colombia , wearing the overall leader 's yellow jersey , in action in the peloton .
REUTERS / Gonzalo Fuentes / File Photo
Following the postponement of the Euro 2020 soccer Championship and the Tokyo Olympic Games , the Tour de France - which takes place in June and July - is one of the last major global sporting events that has not yet been cancelled or postponed .
“ The Tour is a sports monument .
It is too soon to decide .
There is a time for everything .
For now , we have a more urgent battle to fight .
Let us focus on this mountain in front of us and then consider what ’s next , ” French Sports Minister Roxana Maracineanu wrote on Twitter .
Since the Tour ’s inception in 1903 , only the two world wars of 1914 - 1918 and 1939 - 1945 have forced organisers to cancel the race .
A Sports ministry spokeswoman told Reuters on Thursday that the ministry was monitoring the pandemic ’s evolution .
“ There is no rush to decide today , ” she said , 92 days ahead of the Tour ’s scheduled June 27 start in the Mediterranean city of Nice .
It is due to finish in Paris on July 19 .
In an interview with radio station France Bleu late on Wednesday , Maracineanu said that one option would be to organise a Tour without roadside spectators .
“ The Tour ’s economic model is not based on ticket sales but on TV rights .
During this period of confinement , everybody is aware of the risks and responsible , ” the minister said .
“ People understand the benefits of staying home and watching event on TV rather than live .
It would not be too detrimental to follow the Tour on TV . ”
The Tour attracts more than 10 million spectators along France ’s roads every year and is broadcast globally .
However , Marc Madiot , the president of the French cycling league and director of the Groupama – FDJ cycling team said it would be difficult to police a Tour without spectators .
“ How would you stop the public from attending ? ”
he said .
France ’s 67 million people have broadly respected the conditions of an unprecedented peacetime lockdown but few sports stir the passions of French sports enthusiasts more than cycling .
Moreover , riders often race large parts of a stage in closely - packed groups and team members live in close proximity to one another for nearly a month in hotels , and travel together on buses and airplanes that shuttle them between stages .
Teams are already grappling with how to keep their riders fit after the cycling season was suspended last week .
All races up until the end of April have been cancelled .
“ As long as we are not allowed to get out on the road , it is hard to think about getting in shape for the event , ” AG2R - La Mondiale rider Romain Bardet told France Bleu .
Reporting by Geert De Clercq ;
Editing by Alison Williams , Hugh Lawson and Toby Davis

Ford plans to resume production at some North American plants in April .
2020-03-26 13:14:23 +00:00 .
DETROIT ( Reuters ) - Ford Motor Co ( F.N ) said on Thursday it planned to restart production at some plants in North America as early as April 6 , bringing back its most profitable vehicles at a time when U.S. demand has slumped and the No . 2 U.S. automaker is conserving cash to survive the coronavirus pandemic .
The logo is seen on the bonnet of a new Ford Aspire car during its launch in New Delhi , India , October 4 , 2018 .
Picture taken October 4 , 2018 .
REUTERS / Anushree Fadnavis
The Dearborn , Michigan - based company said it was bringing key plants back online , while introducing additional safety measures to protect returning workers from the coronavirus pandemic .
Among the vehicles Ford will begin production of again are the sales - leading F-150 full - sized pickup and heavier - duty versions of the truck , as well as commercial vans and SUVs .
" We will continue to assess public health conditions as well as supplier readiness and will adjust plans if necessary , " the company said here in a statement .
The global coronavirus outbreak , which has killed more than 21,000 people , has forced the shutdown of auto plants around the world as companies attempt to curtail the spread of the disease among factory employees .
The outbreak has put pressure on companies , including Ford , which drew down credit lines to build its cash position .
That move led Standard Poor ’s on Wednesday to downgrade the company ’s debt to “ junk ” status and warn Ford was at risk of another downgrade .
The U.S. Senate on Wednesday passed a $ 2 trillion economic rescue package to help unemployed workers and companies , including the auto industry , hit hard by the outbreak .
U.S. President Donald Trump , concerned about the economic repercussions of an extended shutdown , has said he wants America to get back to business by Easter , or April 12 , suggesting some efforts to slow the spread of the outbreak will no longer be needed by then .
General Motors Co ( GM.N ) and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV ( FCA)(FCHA.MI ) ( FCAU.N ) previously said they would shut down their North American operations through March 30 and then reassess after that .
“ The situation is fluid and can change week to week , ” GM spokesman Jim Cain said on Thursday .
“ We do n’t have firm return - to - work dates at this time . ”
FCA spokeswoman Jodi Tinson said on Thursday the Italian - American automaker was evaluating the situation .
UAW President Rory Gamble said on Tuesday in a letter to union members that Ford and FCA had no plans to reopen manufacturing operations on March 30 .
The UAW has said three union members who worked at FCA plants have died due to the coronavirus .
Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer issued an order on Monday barring non - essential businesses from operating until April 13 .
A spokeswoman for Whitmer was previously unable to clarify whether auto production was considered essential or not .
Ford plans to begin production on one shift at its Hermosillo , Mexico , assembly plant , where it builds the Ford Fusion and Lincoln MKZ sedans .
It will restart production on April 14 at its Dearborn plant that builds the F-150 and a Kentucky plant that makes the Super Duty version of the pickup as well as the Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator SUVs .
The Ford Transit van line at its Kansas City , Missouri , plant , the Ohio plant that builds Econoline vans and heavy duty trucks , and several stamping , transmission and parts plants also will restart on that day .
Additional reporting by Sanjana Shivdas in Bengaluru ; Editing by Shinjini Ganguli and
Bernadette Baum

Swiss army joins frontline in battle against coronavirus .
2020-03-26 12:32:48 +00:00 .
NEUCHATEL , Switzerland ( Reuters ) -
In a Swiss hospital , the tall young soldier adjusts the heavy hospital bed in which an elderly woman with coronavirus is coughing deeply and wheels her out of the emergency ward .
A sign of Hospital Battalion 2 of the Swiss army is pictured during a media visit of the deployment at Pourtales Hospital during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Neuchatel , Switzerland , March 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Denis Balibouse Head nurse Christophe Galzin is delighted to be getting the extra help .
“ They ( the soldiers ) are very strong , ” he said .
The Swiss army , which has not been mobilised since World War Two and then only in defensive mode , has been deployed to help healthcare workers on the frontline of Switzerland ’s war against coronavirus .
Switzerland now has nearly 10,000 confirmed cases and over 100 deaths .
It shares a border with Italy , the country worst affected worldwide by the virus , and with France , also badly hit .
Despite its wealth , top - notch healthcare system and a factory to make ventilators , a top official has warned that Swiss hospitals could soon collapse .
One near the Italian border in Ticino canton is already under great strain .
The team at Neuchatel Hospital , in a French - speaking canton , has worked long shifts to cope with the influx of coronavirus cases and eight in Galzin ’s team have already caught it .
Since Monday , 90 men and women drawn from Switzerland ’s 2,400 “ blue berets ” , or hospital soldiers , have been helping out , moving beds , cleaning and performing other tasks .
“ The Neuchatel hospitals had the good sense to make us come earlier , before the peak ... , ” said Priscilla Schober , a soldier in Galzin ’s team .
“ When the peak does come , we will really be at our best and able to act . ”
The hospital now has 24 coronavirus patients but triage tents - still empty - have been erected in the car park and spare beds prepared for a bigger influx .
Outside , a banner reads : “ Healthcare workers , we are with you in these moments ... ” , reflecting a wave of public support for them .
Galzin described the soldiers ’ help as a “ huge relief ” .
“ It ... allows us to relieve our teams so we can involve them a little bit later when it ( the pandemic ) increases in intensity , ” he said .
ARMY OF STUDENTS , LAWYERS , BANKERS
Switzerland is one of few Western countries that still has mandatory military service for men , meaning it has a large pool of potential recruits to draw from .
Around 8,000 have been mobilised until late June , many taken out of their civilian life as students , lawyers and bankers - via a text message last week - to build tents , drive ambulances and move supplies .
A further 1,000 have volunteered .
“ They are not professionals and that ’s what makes it remarkable , ” said Commander Yvon Langel in the hospital lobby .
The army , which has stayed out of wars for centuries , is famous for its extensive preparations , building anti - tank defences during World War Two and nuclear bunkers in the mountains during the Cold War .
Its four hospital battalions have done modules that cover disasters such as earthquakes and epidemics and did a crash - course in coronavirus last weekend .
Still , the troops said it was difficult to feel ready .
Ludovic Besson , a young sergeant who in civilian life is a carpenter , said the hardest part was the long separation from his family .
“ I will explain to my daughter later , when she is older , that if her dad was not there when she was six months old , this is because he had a more important mission with the army and for the country . ”
Writing by Emma Farge ; editing by Stephanie Nebehay and Gareth Jones

Former FBI agent Levinson believed to have died in Iran custody, family says .
2020-03-26 12:06:17 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -
The family of Robert Levinson , the former FBI agent who disappeared in March 2007 after traveling to an island controlled by Iran , said on Wednesday it now believes Levinson died in Iranian custody , based on information from U.S. officials .
President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he had not been told that Levinson was dead , but things did not look good and a lot of people thought Levinson had died .
White House national security adviser Robert O’Brien said in a statement later : “ While the investigation is ongoing , we believe that Bob Levinson may have passed away some time ago . ”
Levinson ’s family said in a posting on Facebook and a website : “ Today with aching hearts , we are sharing devastating news about Robert Levinson , the head of our family . ”
“ We recently received information from US officials that has led both them and us to conclude that our wonderful husband and father died while in Iranian Custody .
We do n’t know when or how he died , only that it was prior to the COVID 19 pandemic , ” the family said .
The family said they did not know when , or even if , Levinson ’s body would be returned to them , calling it “ the very definition of cruelty . ”
Trump called Levinson “ a gentleman ” and “ outstanding . ”
He added , in apparent reference to what U.S. officials had told the family : “ They ’ve been making the statement to the family , I believe . ”
“ It ’s not looking good ; he was n’t well for years anyway , in Iran , ” Trump said .
“ It ’s not looking promising ... we feel terribly for the family . ”
“ It ’s not looking great , but I wo n’t accept that he ’s dead , ” the president added .
“ They have n’t told us that he ’s dead , but a lot of people are thinking that that ’s the case . ”
O’Brien added in his statement : “ Iran must provide a complete accounting of what occurred with Bob Levinson before the United States can fully accept what happened in this case . ”
Levinson disappeared after flying from Dubai to Kish Island in the Gulf in March 2007 .
There he met with Daoud Salahuddin , an American Islamic militant who fled to Iran while facing charges in the murder of an Iranian embassy official based in Washington .
Levinson , working then as a private investigator , was seeking information on alleged corruption involving former Iranian president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and his family , said sources familiar with his work .
FILE PHOTO :
Christine Levinson ( R ) , wife of former FBI agent Robert Levinson , watches as her son Daniel Levinson displays a web print of his father 's picture to journalists while attending a news conference at Switzerland 's embassy in Tehran December 22 , 2007 .
REUTERS / Morteza Nikoubazl ( IRAN )
Months after he disappeared , U.S. government sources acknowledged that before traveling to Kish Island , Levinson had maintained an unorthodox contractual relationship with the analytical branch of the Central Intelligence Agency .
A handful of CIA officials were forced out of the agency and several more were disciplined after an internal agency investigation .
The Iranian government has never publicly acknowledged any role in Levinson ’s abduction , though at the time of his disappearance a government - affiliated media outlet broadcast a story saying he was “ in the hands of Iranian security forces . ”
Some U.S. investigators at least until recently believed Levinson was still alive , while officials at other U.S. agencies believe he died some time , perhaps years , ago .
Reporting by Mark Hosenball ; Additional reporting by Steve Holland and David Brunnstrom ; Editing by Mary Milliken and
Leslie Adler

UPDATE 2-JXTG cuts FY outlook to $2.7 bln loss due to slumping oil prices, pandemic .
2020-03-26 10:45:44 +00:00 .
* Expects Y300 bln loss vs Y155 bln profit in prior forecast *
To book Y250 bln appraisal loss on oil and products inventories
* Sees Y90 bln impairment loss on upstream oil and gas assets ( Adds detail and stock price )
By Yuka Obayashi
TOKYO , March 26 ( Reuters ) - JXTG Holdings , Japan ’s biggest oil refiner , on Thursday warned of a record full - year net loss of 300 billion yen ( $ 2.7 billion ) as plunging oil prices cut its inventory values and the coronavirus outbreak reduced demand for oil products .
The company , which is also a copper miner and smelter , had previously expected 155 billion yen in net profit for the fiscal year ending on March 31 .
The warning comes as oil and gas companies are cutting spending plans as tough coronavirus containment measures curb travel , slashing fuel consumption , and as a crude oil glut swells after the collapse of an OPEC+ output deal .
“ We are cutting our forecast due to falling prices in oil and copper amid the spreading coronavirus outbreak and lower demand and margins of our oil and petrochemical products at home and abroad , ” the company said in a statement .
The company plans to book a 250 billion yen appraisal loss on its oil and oil products inventories , 180 billion yen bigger than it had anticipated in November , it said .
Its operating profit , excluding the appraisal loss , is also expected to deteriorate by 310 billion yen from its previous forecast to 40 billion yen .
The company ’s margin has fallen by 130 billion yen from its earlier estimate as the pandemic slowed economic activity , including that of airlines and shippers , leading to dwindling demand for oil and petrochemical products and hammering their prices .
JXTG will also book an impairment loss of 90 billion yen on its stake in oil and natural gas development projects to reflect tanking oil prices .
International benchmark oil prices have more than halved since the beginning of the year .
As a result , its operating profit in the energy segment , excluding inventory impact , will be nil , against its earlier forecast of a 195 billion yen profit , while the oil and gas development segment will see an operating loss of 50 billion yen , against its prior estimate of a 55 billion yen profit .
The profit estimate at its metal unit was also cut by 10 billion yen to 40 billion yen .
Copper prices on the London Metal Exchange ( LME ) have lost about 21 % this year .
Despite its forecast for the first net loss since posting 278.5 billion yen in the year that ended on March 2016 , the company kept its annual dividend forecast of 22 yen per share .
Shares in JXTG fell only 0.4 % to finish at 385.0 yen after the news , against a 1.8 % drop in the broader TOPIX index .
( $ 1 = 110.7800 yen ) ( Reporting by Yuka Obayashi Editing by Tom Hogue and Shailesh Kuber )

Two more weeks of lockdown as Spain's coronavirus crisis worsens .
2020-03-26 10:06:53 +00:00 .
MADRID ( Reuters ) - Spain ’s coronavirus lockdown was extended on Thursday to last until at least April 12 as Europe ’s second - worst hit country struggled to tackle a fast increase in the death toll .
Ambulance workers wearing protective gear arrive with a patient at La Princesa hospital during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Madrid , Spain March 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Susana Vera Parliament voted in the early hours of Thursday to extend emergency measures - including the state of lockdown that has seen people confined to their homes except for essential trips for food , medicine and work .
Confirmed cases in Spain have jumped 10 - fold since the state of emergency was imposed on March 14 , while its death toll exceeded China ’s on Wednesday , with 738 lives lost in a single day .
“ It is not easy to extend the state of emergency , ” Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said in Parliament .
“ I am convinced the only efficient option against the virus is social isolation . ”
A majority of 321 lawmakers voted in favor of the extension , while 28 abstained .
The largest opposition party , the conservative People ’s Party , supported the measure .
However , its leader Pablo Casado chastized Sanchez for what he described as a late and inadequate response to the crisis .
Casado blasted the decision not to cancel the International Women ’s Day marches on March 8 , which drew hundreds of thousands of people to the streets , and criticized the government ’s failure to provide medical professionals with vital equipment .
“ Governments do n’t send their soldiers to the front without helmets , flak jackets and ammunition .
But our health workers do n’t have any protection , ” Casado told parliament .
Nursing homes , whose elderly residents are highly vulnerable to the disease , have been particularly hard hit .
An analysis by radio network Cadena Ser found at least 397 residents of such homes had died from coronavirus , more than 10 % of the country ’s 3,434 death toll .
The health ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the findings .
In Madrid , Spain ’s worst affected region , hearses continued to arrive at the city ’s ice rink , which was converted into a makeshift morgue after authorities said existing facilities lacked resources .
Procuring equipment like masks , scrubs and gloves has become difficult as the government fights to contain the virus .
Foreign Minister Arancha Gonzalez complained that market speculation was driving up prices for some items .
“ We must favour long - term purchases from a group of more stable and more established companies so that we do n’t depend on these crooks , ” she told Basque radio station Radio Euskadi .
Government spokeswoman Maria Jesus Montero said separately that some suppliers were not meeting delivery deadlines .
Spain has ordered 432 million euros ( $ 471.4 million ) of masks , gloves and testing kits from China , and has turned to NATO partners for protective gear and ventilators .
( $ 1 = 0.9164 euros )
Reporting by Jessica Jones , Inti Landauro , Clara - Laeila Laudette and Emma Pinedo ;
Writing by Inti Landauro and Nathan Allen ; Editing by Ingrid Melander and Angus MacSwan

Prince Charles tests positive for coronavirus, Queen in good health .
2020-03-26 07:35:44 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Prince Charles , the 71 - year - old heir to the British throne , has tested positive for coronavirus but is in good health and is now self isolating in Scotland with mild symptoms .
Charles , eldest son of Queen Elizabeth , is displaying what Clarence House said were mild symptoms but remains in good health and has been working from his Birkhall residence in Scotland .
His wife , Camilla , 72 , tested negative .
“ The Prince of Wales has tested positive for coronavirus , ” Clarence House said .
“ He has been displaying mild symptoms but otherwise remains in good health and has been working from home throughout the last few days as usual . ”
“ The Duchess of Cornwall has also been tested but does not have the virus , ” Clarence House said .
Queen Elizabeth who is currently at Windsor Castle is in good health , Buckingham Palace said .
A royal source said the Prince of Wales , who was tested on Monday and got the results on Tuesday , was advised the condition was unlikely to escalate into a more serious case .
Charles has spoken to both Queen Elizabeth and to his sons , Prince William and Harry .
Prime Minister Boris Johnson wished the prince a speedy recovery and was due to hold his weekly audience with the queen by telephone , Johnson ’s spokesman said .
The United States wished Prince Charles a speedy recovery , a senior Trump administration official said .
QUEEN IN GOOD HEALTH
Charles last saw the 93 - year - old monarch on the morning of March 12 following an investiture , before the earliest time he is likely to have been infectious .
“ Her Majesty The Queen remains in good health , ” Buckingham Palace said .
“ The Queen last saw The Prince of Wales briefly after the investiture on the morning of 12th March and is following all the appropriate advice with regard to her welfare . ”
A royal source said that the earliest Charles would have been infectious was March 13 .
Charles and Camilla went to Highgrove House , his residence in west England , on March 13 and then travelled to their Birkhall residence on the Balmoral estate in Scotland on Sunday .
Scotland ’s chief medical officer , Dr Catherine Calderwood , said both Charles and Camilla had been tested for “ clinical reasons ” and that both were in good health .
Queen Elizabeth left London for Windsor Castle on March 19 .
She is with her 98 - year - old husband , Philip .
When asked if the queen or Philip had been tested for coronavirus , Buckingham Palace declined to comment .
“ It is not possible to ascertain from whom the Prince caught the virus owing to the high number of engagements he carried out in his public role during recent weeks , ” Clarence House said .
Charles met Prince Albert of Monaco , who later tested positive , at a charity event in London on March 10 .
Additional reporting by William James in London and Steve Holland in Washington ; Editing by Alison Williams and
Alexandra Hudson

Singapore flags deep recession as coronavirus shrinks economy in first-quarter .
2020-03-26 01:32:55 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) - Singapore ’s economy suffered its biggest contraction in a decade in the first quarter , data showed on Thursday , as the coronavirus pandemic prompted the city - state to cut its full - year GDP forecast and plan for a deep recession .
File Photo : Clouds are seen above the Marina Bay Sands resort in Singapore January 24 , 2011 .
REUTERS /
Kevin Lam / File Photo
The grim data is likely to reinforce fears that global activity will sharply contract in the first half of the year .
Singapore is one of the world ’s most open economies and one of the first to report growth data since the virus spread from China at the start of the year .
The economy of the Asian financial and trading hub shrank 2.2 % in the first quarter from a year earlier , preliminary readings from the Ministry of Trade and Industry showed .
That marked the biggest drop since the 2009 financial crisis and was below economists ’ expectations for a 1.5 % decline .
On a quarterly basis , gross domestic product ( GDP ) shrank 10.6 % , the lowest since 2010 and well below expectations for a 6.3 % decline .
The data prompted the trade ministry to cut its 2020 GDP forecast range to -4 % to -1 % , from a previous range of -0.5 % to 1.5 % , and firmed up investors ’ bets for major fiscal and monetary stimulus .
“ The COVID-19 outbreak has escalated , and led to a significant deterioration in the economic situation both externally and domestically , ” the trade ministry said .
Just weeks after announcing multi - billion dollar schemes to offset the impact of the outbreak on businesses and households in its annual budget , the finance ministry is set to announce more relief packages later on Thursday .
The Monetary Authority of Singapore ( MAS ) , meanwhile , has brought forward its semi - annual monetary policy statement to Monday , March 30 , and many economists are expecting drastic easing not seen since the financial crisis .
“ The extent of the first two months already tells you ... how bad it is going to get , ” said Selena Ling , head of treasury research and strategy at OCBC Bank .
“ The likelihood is that they will bring out a very big bazooka this afternoon , and come next Monday , MAS will also do what ’s necessary . ”
Singapore has been battling the virus outbreak which has killed more than 19,000 globally since mid - January .
It has seen a surge in mainly - imported infections in recent days , and on Wednesday recorded its biggest daily jump in cases bringing its total to 631 .
“ With a number of major industrial economies now instituting social distancing measures and/or lockdowns , large - scale near - term declines in economic activity are on the way , and a global recession is now our baseline , ” Oxford Economics said in a note to clients this week , while noting growth could rebound quickly once tough containment measures are lifted .
Reporting by John Geddie , Aradhana Aravindan and Joe Brock ;
Editing by Kim Coghill

Accused New Zealand mosque shooter pleads guilty to 51 murders, terrorism .
2020-03-26 01:05:45 +00:00 .
WELLINGTON ( Reuters ) -
A suspected white supremacist accused of killing 51 Muslim worshippers in New Zealand ’s worst mass shooting changed his plea to guilty in a surprise move on Thursday .
FILE PHOTO :
Brenton Tarrant , charged for murder in relation to the mosque attacks , is seen in the dock during his appearance in the Christchurch District Court , New Zealand March 16 , 2019 .
Mark Mitchell / New Zealand Herald / Pool via REUTERS /
File
Photo Brenton Tarrant , who appeared by video link , admitted to 51 charges of murder , 40 charges of attempted murder and one charge of committing a terrorist act in a hastily called Christchurch High Court hearing .
“ He has been convicted of each and every one of those charges , ” presiding judge Justice Cameron Mander said in minutes of the hearing released by the court .
“ The entry of guilty pleas represents a very significant step towards bringing finality to this criminal proceeding , ” Justice Mander said .
Tarrant has been in police custody since March 15 , 2019 , when he was arrested and accused of using semi - automatic weapons to target Muslims attending Friday prayers at two mosques in Christchurch .
The attack was streamed live on Facebook .
Tarrant , a 29 - year - old Australian , had previously pleaded not guilty to all charges .
Justice Mander said there was now no need for the six week trial that was previously due to begin on June 2 .
The court will now sentence Tarrant on all 92 charges , but did not provide a date for that sentencing .
Tarrant was remanded in custody until May 1 .
Due to a nationwide lockdown in place for the coronavirus outbreak , Thursday ’s court hearing took place with just 17 people in the courtroom , which included minimal staff , lawyers and some local media .
An Iman for each of the two mosques attacked were also allowed to attend the hearing .
New Zealand announced a nationwide lockdown starting on Thursday , to combat the spread of coronavirus .
The court placed a one - hour embargo on reporting the news in order to inform family members and victims about what had taken place before it was made public .
“ The guilty plea today will provide some relief to the many people whose lives were shattered by what happened on March 15 , ” Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said in a statement .
“ These guilty pleas and conviction bring accountability for what happened and also save the families who lost loved ones , those who were injured , and other witnesses , the ordeal of a trial , ” she said .
Reporting by Praveen Menon ; Editing by Jane Wardell and Lincoln Feast .

Famous chefs, New York restaurants to push landlords for rent breaks during coronavirus crisis .
2020-03-25 23:04:16 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) - Renowned restaurants , including Cipriani , Smith Wollensky , The Smith , and Boqueria , as well as owners Stephen Starr and chef Bobby Flay , have formed a new group seeking help from New York City landlords to survive the coronavirus crisis .
FILE PHOTO :
An empty restaurant is seen in Manhattan borough following the outbreak of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in New York City , U.S. , March 15 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Jeenah Moon / File Photo
The group , which is called The Restaurant Network and has not yet been announced publicly , is finalizing a set of terms it hopes small businesses can propose to landlords for rent relief and capital assistance .
On March 15 , New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio ordered restaurants , bars and cafes to close except for takeout , delivery and drive - thru , dealing a massive blow to an industry that is already dominated by small business owners operating on razor thin margins .
Two days later , New York ’s Union Square Hospitality Group , which operates more than 20 restaurants , said it would lay off 80 % of staff , about 2,000 people .
President Donald Trump has called on businesses to reopen by the April 12 Easter holiday to help get the battered U.S. economy up and running .
But companies say they are waiting until health officials signal the all clear , which is unlikely to happen soon as New York has become the epicenter of the U.S. outbreak with some 18,000 known cases of the illness caused by the new coronavirus in the city alone .
Many shuttered restaurants have no idea how they can pay for rehiring and retraining staff and replenishing food supplies in order to eventually reopen .
Usually , banks do not lend to individual operators like a single cafe with pastries and coffee or even larger groups - especially now that they have been closed with no revenue stream .
Some restaurant companies may already have government - backed small business loans , and alternative lenders charge high borrowing rates .
“ For a business to reenter the marketplace , it ’s going to require not only rent relief but also capital assistance from landlords , ” said Steven Kamali , founder of Hospitality House , an advisory firm for food , drink , hospitality and real estate , who helped create the new group .
The Restaurant Network is considering asking landlords to let bars and restaurants use the security deposits on leases to get back on their feet .
Kamali on Wednesday asked the city ’s powerful Real Estate Board of New York , the industry ’s trade association , to discuss a set of terms that would help small businesses reopen .
Many will still need help on top of any federal or state aid that may come their way , he said .
Other notable names in The Restaurant Group include Cosme , Scarpetta , Sushisamba and celebrity chefs David Burke and Alex Guarnaschelli .
Reporting by Hilary Russ ;
Editing by Bill Berkrot

Time running out for Wimbledon .
2020-03-25 21:28:51 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - This year ’s Wimbledon Championships have so far survived the cull of the world ’s most prestigious sporting events due to the coronavirus pandemic , but it seems only a matter of time before they are postponed or canceled .
FILE PHOTO :
Tennis - Wimbledon - All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club , London , Britain - July 2 , 2019
General view of the Wimbledon logo on the base of the handle of a tennis racquet REUTERS / Andrew Couldridge
With London in its first week of lockdown , All England Lawn Tennis Club ( AELTC ) officials are weighing up their limited options .
The ‘ build ’ for the June 29 - July 12 championships is supposed to start in little over a month but it seems increasingly likely Wimbledon will be forced to miss a year for the first time since 1945 .
“ The AELTC has been contingency planning since January , working closely with the UK government and public health authorities to follow their advice and understand the likely impact of COVID-19 and the government ’s emergency measures on The Championships , and our thoughts are with all those affected by this crisis at this time , ” the club said in a statement on Wednesday .
“ Based on the advice we have received from the public health authorities , the very short window available to us to stage The Championships due to the nature of our surface suggests that postponement is not without significant risk and difficulty , ” it added .
The AELTC said playing behind closed doors was not an option .
The Australian Open , the year ’s first Grand Slam , was completed before the coronavirus crisis exploded to virtually shut down world sport , including the men ’s ATP Tour and women ’s WTA Tour .
The French Open last week made the decision to move the claycourt tournament to Sept. 20 - Oct. 4 from its May start because of the outbreak .
While the postponement of the Tokyo Olympics on Tuesday potentially opened a two - week slot in the calendar in July / August , it would appear unlikely Wimbledon would use it .
Switching to a later time in the year is even less likely as Wimbledon has only two covered courts and elite outdoor grasscourt tennis is not feasible past late summer .
Wimbledon said it is communicating closely with the LTA , and with the ATP , WTA , ITF and the other Grand Slams .
But a cancellation looks increasingly likely .
“ The unprecedented challenge presented by the COVID-19 crisis continues to affect our way of life in ways that we could not have imagined , ” AELTC chief executive Richard Lewis said .
“ Our thoughts are with all those affected in the UK and around the world .
The single most important consideration is one of public health , and we are determined to act responsibly through the decisions we make . ”
Additional reporting by Zoran Milosavljevic ;
Editing by Ed Osmond

Exclusive: Amazon pauses sellers' loan repayments amid coronavirus .
2020-03-25 21:06:11 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Amazon.com Inc ( AMZN.O ) on Wednesday said it temporarily would not require sellers in its marketplace to repay loans it had made to them , as merchants confront the prospect of declining sales during the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
Amazon logo is seen in front of diplayed coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in this illustration taken March 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Dado Ruvic / Illustration / File Photo
The world ’s largest online retailer notified sellers that its program known as Amazon Lending would pause repayments beginning Thursday until April 30 .
Interest would not accrue during that period , it said .
The program has offered sums between $ 1,000 and $ 750,000 to merchants looking for capital to acquire inventory , expand their product lines and advertise on Amazon .
“ Loan repayments will restart on May 1 , 2020 ...
You will have the same number of remaining payments once repayment resumes , ” Amazon said in a seller message obtained by Reuters .
The company ’s offer may provide relief to sellers , some of whom could be hard hit by Amazon ’s recent decision to restrict its U.S. and European fulfillment services to household , medical and other essential goods in demand during the outbreak .
Merchants of popular items from toys to apparel have worried that the temporary ban on stocking goods in Amazon warehouses , on which they depend for delivery , would mean low sales and difficulty paying back loans .
Jamison Philippi , an Amazon seller of toys and video games in Hackensack , New Jersey , had estimated to Reuters his income could drop by 75 % just as he had a roughly $ 3,500 loan payment due to Amazon on April 1 .
“ That ’s super awesome .
I cheered when I got that email .
That relieves a lot of stress right now , ” Philippi said .
Amazon ’s move came after at least one rival offered sellers relief .
Ricardo Pero , chief executive of lending company SellersFunding , last week told Reuters he was easing terms to help sellers on Amazon and other marketplaces navigate the rapidly changing retail market .
SellersFunding offers lines of credit and term loans to new and existing borrowers .
Both products offer a 90 - day interest - only period .
Amazon , which had won customers by continually making shipping faster over the years , has now slowed delivery to weeks in some cases in order to manage a flood of orders .
That could also dampen merchants ’ sales as shoppers look elsewhere for goods .
It was unclear what additional relief Amazon might provide to sellers , if any .
More than 20,000 merchants have gotten loans from Amazon , the company said in 2017 .
The e - commerce giant said at the time it had doled out more than $ 1 billion to sellers in the preceding 12 months .
Reporting By Jeffrey Dastin and Lisa Baertlein ;
Editing by Alistair Bell

Television audiences surge to 12-month highs as coronavirus keeps Americans home .
2020-03-25 20:01:59 +00:00 .
LOS ANGELES ( Reuters ) -
From family drama “ This Is Us ” to crime series “ NCIS , ” audiences are flocking to television shows in numbers unseen for up to a year as coronavirus shutdowns and social distancing keeps millions of Americans at home .
FILE PHOTO :
Chrissy Metz attends the Vanity Fair Oscar party in Beverly Hills during the 92nd Academy Awards , in Los Angeles , California , U.S. , February 9 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Danny Moloshok / File Photo Police action series “ NCIS ” scored its biggest audience since February 2019 on Tuesday night , attracting some 13.08 million viewers - a 22 % increase over its last original broadcast on March 10 , CBS said on Wednesday .
The Tuesday night season finale of heart - tugging NBC series “ This Is Us ” was the most - watched episode since September 2019 and saw a 21 % increase in viewers aged 18 - 49 over the previous week , NBC said .
Audiences for the big four U.S. television networks - ABC , CBS , Fox , and NBC - have been declining in recent years due to fierce competition from streaming , esports and social media .
U.S. movie theaters and Broadway theaters have been shut down for almost two weeks , and multiple U.S. states have ordered the closure of restaurants , bars , theme parks and concert venues in a bid to contain the coronavirus epidemic .
There are now more than 60,000 cases in the United States and more than 880 deaths .
Streaming service Netflix Inc was also expected to be a major beneficiary of the stay at home directives .
Netflix chief content officer Ted Sarandos told CNN on Sunday that viewing was up but gave no details .
Netflix on Wednesday declined to comment on recent viewership .
However multiple shows on traditional television , including “ The Good Doctor ” on ABC , “ The Masked Singer ” on Fox and “ Survivor ” on CBS are also seeing a surge in viewers , according to ratings data .
Data analytics company Nielsen said in a report last week that Americans are expected to watch as much as 60 % more television across all platforms as increasingly restrictive shutdowns are implemented across the United States .
The increases are not just for escapist fare .
Sunday ’s topical news show “ 60 Minutes ” reached 10.9 million viewers , its largest audience since December 2019 , CBS said .
Cable channel HBO is seeing increases for shows like sci - fi series “ Westworld ” and for older fare like teen series “ Euphoria . ”
Time spent on the HBO Now streaming service since March 14 was up over 40 % from a month prior , while daily binge viewing increased 65 % compared with the prior four - week period , according to WarnerMedia .
Reporting by Jill Serjeant ; Editing by
Lisa Shumaker

UPDATE 2-German parliament suspends debt brake to fight coronavirus outbreak .
2020-03-25 19:30:48 +00:00 .
( Adds cases , Merkel , pessimism )
By Michael Nienaber BERLIN , March 25 ( Reuters ) -
The German lower house on Wednesday suspended the country ’s constitutionally enshrined debt brake , approving a massive stimulus package by Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government to weather the economic fallout from the coronavirus outbreak .
The epidemic has forced Merkel ’s right - left coalition government to drop its long - held objection to taking on new debt to revive an economy that had been cooling for months before the outbreak .
Germany is in virtual lockdown and with 31,554 confirmed cases and 149 deaths , the government is trying to cushion the impact of the crisis for workers and companies .
Chancellor Angela Merkel , who has been self - quarantining after receiving a vaccination from a doctor later found to have the virus , tested negative for a second time .
The vote in the Bundestag lower house showed that 469 lawmakers had backed Finance Minister Olaf Scholz ’s bill seeking a debt - financed supplementary budget of 156 billion euros ( $ 168.39 billion ) to finance healthcare expenditure and keep companies afloat .
Only 55 lawmakers abstained in the vote on the bill drafted by Merkel ’s conservatives and their Social Democrat ( SPD ) coalition partners .
It was backed by the Greens , Free Democrats and The Left .
“ That ’s a gigantic sum , nearly half of our normal budget for one year , ” Scholz told lawmakers in a special session where lawmakers were separated by a couple of empty chairs in line with hygiene rules .
“ Since this is such a large sum , the German Bundestag must decide if it uses the envisaged exemption to the debt rule in the constitution for the case of an extraordinary emergency . ”
The unprecedented step showed that only a crisis on the scale of the coronavirus outbreak can shatter Germans ’ aversion to debt .
Scholz said the stimulus package was needed to “ fight the social and economic impact of the crisis with full force ” , adding that Germany could afford it .
Germany had been in its 11th straight year of growth before the outbreak , which is set to plunge Europe ’s biggest economy into a recession .
The Ifo institute said earlier output could shrink by as much as 20 % .
The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung reported that Germans were more pessimistic now than at any time since 1949 due to the virus .
The government ’s package includes a supplementary government budget of 156 billion euros , 100 billion euros for an economic stability fund that can take direct equity stakes in companies , and 100 billion euros in credit to public - sector development bank KfW for loans to struggling businesses .
On top of that , the stability fund will offer 400 billion euros in loan guarantees to secure corporate debt at risk of defaulting , taking the overall package to more than 750 billion euros .
The government will give the KfW bank debt authorisation worth up to 200 billion euros .
That means overall new borrowing could rise to as much as 356 billion euros this year , depending on how much companies are making use of the tools .
The combined sum of new debt represents roughly 10 % of Germany ’s gross domestic product , and that does n’t include a fiscal stimulus package promised by Scholz to take effect after the virus is contained and the economy is picking up again .
( $ 1 = 0.9264 euros ) ( Writing by Joseph Nasr and Madeline Chambers Editing by Larry King , Angus MacSwan , Kirsten Donovan )

PRECIOUS-Gold dips as virus spread eclipses aid; palladium races higher .
2020-03-25 15:58:03 +00:00 .
( New throughout , adds comments and updates prices )
* Palladium rally continues on S. Africa lockdown
* Markets await vote on U.S. stimulus bill * Total coronavirus infections at nearly 421,000
By Sumita Layek
March 25 ( Reuters ) - Gold prices slipped on Wednesday , after gaining over the previous three sessions , as rising coronavirus cases and the global economic toll from the disease overshadowed hopes fueled by a $ 2 trillion U.S. government stimulus package .
Deficit - hit palladium , meanwhile , soared more than 15 % as coronavirus - led closures further squeezed supply of the auto - catalyst metal .
Spot gold was down 0.2 % at $ 1,607.57 per ounce at 10:56 a.m. EDT ( 1456 GMT ) .
Prices surged as much as 5 % on Tuesday .
U.S. gold futures slid 1.6 % to $ 1,633.70 , having posted their biggest one - day jump since 2009 in the last session .
“ It ’s very volatile because we have a coronavirus - hit gold market now , we ’ve got supplies from three of the biggest refiners offline in Switzerland and gold is not in the right place where it is needed .
So it ’s creating a lot of nervousness , ” said Saxo Bank analyst Ole Hansen .
The benchmark spot gold prices traded below U.S. gold futures in a sign that the market is worried that air travel restrictions and refinery closures will hamper shipments of bullion to the United States to meet contractual requirements .
U.S. exchange operator CME Group on Tuesday announced a new gold futures contract to combat price volatility caused by the shutdown of gold supply routes , but traders and bankers said it would not immediately calm markets .
Investors are now awaiting U.S. Senate ’s vote later in the day on a $ 2 trillion package to alleviate the devastating economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic .
“ Governments are putting a lot of money into the hands of people , but the only thing that people are worried about is buying food , so it ’s not going to have any immediate impact , ” Hansen said .
The Wall Street also gave up its gains after a massive bounce in the previous session .
The virus has infected nearly 421,000 people , forcing lockdowns across the globe to combat its spread and has prompted countries and central banks worldwide to step in with policy aids .
Among other metals , palladium soared 15 % to $ 2,207.06 per ounce , while platinum gained 1.7 % to $ 719.94 .
Both metals climbed more than 10 % in the previous session .
“ Platinum and palladium have also surged heavily in recent days , as a positive precious metal environment was met with a 21 - day mine closure in South Africa amid virus concerns , ” analysts at TD Securities said in a note .
The country on Wednesday said that the processing of platinum group metals ( PGMs ) would continue during national lockdown .
Silver fell 0.2 % to $ 14.24 per ounce .
Reporting by Swati Verma and Sumita Layek in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Tom Brown

Iran coronavirus toll rises to 2,077 after 143 new deaths .
2020-03-25 15:07:39 +00:00 .
DUBAI ( Reuters ) - Iran may face a second outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic , a government spokesman said on Wednesday , as the Islamic Republic banned internal travel and traditional gatherings in parks during the Persian New Year holiday period .
FILE PHOTO :
Members of firefighters wear protective face masks , amid fear of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , as they disinfect a municipality building , ahead of the Iranian New Year Nowruz , March 20 , in Tehran , Iran March 18 , 2020 .
WANA ( West Asia News Agency)/Ali Khara via REUTERS
“ Unfortunately some Iranians have ignored advice from health ministry officials and traveled during the New Year holidays ...
This could cause a second wave of the coronavirus , ” spokesman Ali Rabiei said , according to state TV .
President Hassan Rouhani has banned any new trips between cities , Rabiei said , and “ violators will be confronted legally ” .
The escalating outbreak in Iran has killed 2,077 people so far , health ministry official Kianush Jahanpur said on Wednesday , with 143 deaths recorded in the past 24 hours .
Officials have complained that many Iranians ignored appeals to stay at home and cancel travel plans for the Persian New Year holidays that began on March 20 .
“ This ( new ) plan is strict and it will create difficulties and restrictions for travel , and prompt people who have already traveled to return home faster , ” Rouhani said in a remarks carried by state television .
At a meeting telecast live , Rouhani said more restrictions would be introduced to contain the coronavirus that has infected 27,017 people nationwide .
The government has so far stopped short of imposing a lockdown on Iranian cities .
The president said gatherings would also be restricted during Sizdah Bedar on April 1 , a nature festival during which Iranians traditionally have picnics outdoors .
“ These are tough decisions that are necessary to protect lives .
All parks may be closed , and Sizdah Bedar will not be like previous years , but we have no choice but to do so , ” Rouhani said , adding that details of the plan will come shortly .
Authorities have called on Iranians to avoid public places and stay at home , while schools , universities , cultural and sports centers have been temporarily closed across the country .
Rouhani said the new measures would be implemented for 15 days until April 4 , when under normal circumstances schools open in Iran after the New Year holidays .
Trucks filled with disinfectant and teams of municipal workers on foot continue to spray down streets , shrines , public parks , trash bins , public toilets and markets in Qom , Tehran and other cities and towns with cases of infection , state TV showed .
Authorities announced Iran ’s first infections and two deaths from the virus on Feb. 19 .
Iranian officials , including Rouhani , have repeatedly dismissed concerns raised by many Iranians about the government ’s handling of the outbreak , saying all necessary measures to overcome the crisis have been taken .
Additional reporting by Dubai newsroom ;
Writing by Parisa Hafezi Editing by Mark Heinrich

UPDATE 3-Norway leads European neighbours by looking to ban bank payouts .
2020-03-25 14:32:11 +00:00 .
( Adds London Stock Exchange )
By Terje Solsvik and Gwladys Fouche OSLO , March 25 ( Reuters ) -
Norway became one of the first European countries on Wednesday to consider banning banks from paying dividends , as the coronavirus outbreak thrusts the globe into crisis .
In a proposal to the finance ministry , Norway ’s Financial Supervisory Authority said the country ’s banks and insurers should not be allowed to pay dividends for now given the grave consequences of the outbreak .
The Norwegian regulator ’s move puts it at the forefront of action taken elsewhere in Europe .
Earlier in the week , Germany ’s financial watchdog urged banks to refrain from share buybacks and think twice before paying dividends and bonuses .
There have been similar calls from officials in Sweden and France .
European regulators have recently loosened rules to make it easier for banks to lend to avoid a collapse of the economy , but they want to prevent the money , which ultimately comes from taxpayers , ends up in the pockets of shareholders or bankers .
“ In this critical situation , taxpayers ’ money is meant to support our health systems and the real economy and not to rescue again carelessly acting banks , ” said Sven Giegold , a German member of the European parliament .
The European Central Bank , which has said it will buy more than 1 trillion euros in bonds and provide cheap financing to banks to fund companies , also expects banks to make “ prudent decisions ” on payouts .
Last week , a group of former senior regulators said in a statement to G20 finance ministers and central bankers that commercial lenders should immediately halt share buybacks , dividends and most staff bonuses to bolster their capital and their capacity to lend to the real economy .
In making its recommendation , Norway ’s FSA said banks could face significant losses due to the outbreak , while insurers risk lower income due to a fall in interest rates and could also see a drop in asset values .
A decision on whether to allow dividend payments to be made for the 2019 fiscal year will be made “ as soon as possible ” , a finance ministry spokesman told Reuters .
The financial industry lobby group , however , said the ministry should reject the proposal .
Most banks have proposed payments for 2019 and are due to hold shareholder meetings in coming weeks to approve the plans .
The regulator has previously urged banks to reconsider dividend payments and buybacks .
The coronavirus outbreak has already taken a heavy toll on Norway , with unemployment rising fivefold in recent weeks to its highest level since the 1930s .
Norway ’s largest bank , DNB , said on Monday it was still considering whether to maintain its plan of paying out a dividend at its annual general meeting at the end of April .
Insurer Gjensidige dropped on Monday a proposal to distribute an extraordinary dividend of 5 Norwegian crowns per share , but maintained plans for paying out an ordinary dividend of 7.25 crowns .
The regulator said any ban on dividends could be reversed at a later time if circumstances change .
Some other banks have pulled their dividends voluntarily .
Santander of Spain , hard hit by the outbreak , on Monday became the first major euro zone lender to announce that it would scrap an interim payment in November and review its 2020 dividend .
The London Stock Exchange on Wednesday said it would allow companies listed on its market to defer payment of dividends for up to 30 days due to coronavirus hitting markets .
( Additional reporting by Tom Sims in Frankfurt and Francesco Guarascio in Brussels ; Writing by John O’Donnell ;
Editing by Toby Chopra )

Saudi tightens coronavirus curfew; travelers stranded in UAE .
2020-03-25 14:26:41 +00:00 .
RIYADH / DUBAI ( Reuters ) -
Saudi Arabia reported its second coronavirus death and tightened a nationwide curfew , barring entry to and exit from the capital Riyadh and the holy cities of Mecca and Medina as well as movement between all provinces from Wednesday .
A general view shows an empty street after a curfew was imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Riyadh , Saudi Arabia March 24 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Ahmed Yosri
The orders , approved by King Salman and published by state media , also brought forward the start of curfew in the three cities to 3 pm from 7 pm starting on Thursday .
Saudi Arabia introduced the 21 - day curfew on Monday after registering a jump in infections .
Its second fatality was a 46 - year - old foreign resident in Mecca , among 133 new cases taking the total to 900 .
Across the six - nation Gulf Cooperation Council the tally rose to 2,472 with seven deaths , as the United Arab Emirates registered 85 new infections , Oman 15 and Kuwait four .
In the UAE , the region ’s tourism , business and transit hub , hundreds of Europeans were stranded after airports halted passenger flights earlier than expected .
Oil engineer Jamie Richardson had been due to return to Britain on Wednesday for a new job , but late on Tuesday , Dubai and Abu Dhabi airports announced flights would stop that night .
“ It ’s proper stressful .
You have no idea what is going on , ” he said .
Saudi Arabia has taken rigorous steps to contain the outbreak , also including halting international flights as well as suspending the Umrah year - round pilgrimage and closing mosques , schools , malls and restaurants .
The curfew and other restrictions have altered the rhythm of daily life in the country of some 30 million , many of whom enjoy late - night gatherings at coffee shops or private homes .
Turkish resident Nasif Erisik , who plays cards most nights with friends at one of their homes , said the group has resorted to online gaming to keep in touch : “ Corona has ... changed our habits and everything in our lives . ”
The authorities say they will fine or jail curfew - breakers and those encouraging violations .
An Interior Ministry spokesman on Wednesday reported high compliance so far .
Dubai directed private sector companies to implement remote working systems for 80 % of staff from now until April 9 , the authority regulating business in the emirate , Dubai Economy , said on Twitter on Wednesday .
Pharmacies , grocery stores , supermarkets and cooperative societies were excluded from the order .
UAE authorities have urged people to stay home but not announced an official curfew or suspended work .
On Wednesday , they directed food retail outlets to remain open 24 hours a day but not exceed 30 % capacity to ensure physical distance of 2 meters ( 6 ft ) between shoppers .
Organisers of the Expo 2020 Dubai world fair , scheduled to start in October and estimated to draw 11 million overseas visitors , confirmed one coronavirus case among staff and said they were reviewing plans and preparations .
Additional reporting by Maher Chmaytelli , Alaa Swilam , Lisa Barrington , Ghaida Ghantous in Dubai , and Marwa Rashad and Reuters TV in Riyadh ;
editing by John Stonestreet

Tokyo governor asks residents to stay home to avoid sharp coronavirus rise .
2020-03-25 13:35:15 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Warning of the risk of an explosive rise in coronavirus infections in Japan ’s capital , Tokyo ’s governor on Wednesday asked residents to avoid non - essential outings through until April 12 .
A woman wearing a protective face mask due to the outbreak of coronavirus disease ( COVID 19 ) walks next to Omega clock , which was previously used as a countdown clock for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games and currently displaying current time and date , after the announcement of the games ' postponement to the summer of 2021 , in Tokyo , Japan , March 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Issei Kato Yuriko Koike told a news conference that the situation was “ severe ” after 41 new cases were reported in Tokyo on Wednesday alone .
She asked residents to cooperate to stem the spread by working at home as much as possible and staying away from restaurants and gatherings .
“ To avoid an overshoot in infections , the cooperation of Tokyo residents is critical .
I ask you to act with a sense of crisis , ” Koike said .
The national government also urged citizens to curb non - essential travel abroad , adding it was the first time it had made such a request covering all countries outside Japan .
The city has become the center of Japan ’s coronavirus epidemic , with 212 cases , more than any other region after increases this week .
It overtook the hard - hit northern island of Hokkaido island on Tuesday as the prefecture with the most infections , public broadcaster NHK reported .
The outbreak has infected 1,271 people in Japan as of Wednesday evening , with 44 deaths linked to the virus , NHK said .
That excludes 712 cases and 10 deaths from a cruise ship moored near Tokyo last month .
The International Olympic Committee and Japanese government on Tuesday agreed to put back the Tokyo 2020 Olympics to 2021 over the outbreak .
Tokyo ’s new infections came after Koike warned that a lockdown of the capital was possible if it saw an explosive rise in cases .
Koike on Monday had called on residents to exercise restraint to avoid a lockdown .
She said the next three weeks were critical for whether Tokyo would see an “ overshoot ” - an explosive rise - in virus cases .
Hokkaido , which has seen 167 cases , last week ended a state of emergency over its outbreak of the coronavirus .
The outbreak has now infected more than 420,000 across 196 countries , according to a Reuters tally , with almost 19,000 deaths linked to the virus .
Additional reporting by Daniel Leussink ; Writing by Linda Sieg and David Dolan ;
Editing by Robert Birsel , Angus MacSwan and Andrew Heavens

PRECIOUS-Gold slips as virus panic offsets stimulus hopes .
2020-03-25 13:26:00 +00:00 .
( Recasts , adds comments and updates prices )
* U.S. government agrees to massive stimulus package
* Platinum , palladium extend gains on S. Africa lockdown
* Global coronavirus infections at nearly 421,000
By Asha Sistla
March 25 ( Reuters ) -
Gold prices retreated from a two - week high hit earlier on Wednesday as concerns about a sharp rise in coronavirus infections outweighed expectations of a $ 2 trillion U.S. government stimulus package to soften the economic fallout .
Spot gold , which rose as much as 5 % on Tuesday , was down 0.4 % at $ 1,604.28 per ounce at 1242 GMT , having earlier risen as high as $ 1,635.79 .
U.S. gold futures fell 1.7 % to $ 1,632.10 .
“ The U.S. stimulus had a huge positive impact initially but it was always questionable whether that would be sustainable in an environment of rapidly rising coronavirus cases , ” OANDA analyst Craig Erlam said .
“ The big downside risk ( in gold ) remains the potential for those sharp sell - offs in equity markets to be repeated , especially following yesterday ’s huge rally . ”
U.S. Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell said the fiscal stimulus package , expected to be worth $ 2 trillion , had been agreed upon and would be put to a vote later on Wednesday .
European stocks were choppy again on Wednesday with bourses across the region wiping off most of their early morning gains .
The world has been reeling from the impact of the virus , which has infected nearly 421,000 people and has forced lockdowns across the globe to combat its spread .
Spain reported 738 fatalities from the coronavirus in the past 24 hours , the steepest increase since the epidemic hit the country .
Meanwhile in the UK , Prince Charles , the 71 - year - old heir to the British throne , has tested positive the virus .
“ We still see a favourable backdrop for gold as the economic fallout from the coronavirus crisis should strengthen safe - haven demand , ” Julius Baer analyst Carsten Menke said .
Holdings in the world ’s largest gold - backed exchange - traded fund , SPDR Gold Trust , rose 1.3 % on Tuesday .
Benchmark spot gold prices traded below U.S. gold futures in a sign that the market is worried that air travel restrictions and refinery closures will hamper shipments of bullion to the United States to meet contractual requirements .
Among other metals , palladium rose 3 % to $ 1,990.04 per ounce , while platinum gained 0.5 % to $ 711.16 .
Both climbed more than 10 % in the previous session after a lockdown in major producer South Africa .
Silver fell 1.3 % to $ 14.09 per ounce .
Reporting by Asha Sistla and Sumita Layek in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Alexander Smith , Kirsten Donovan

Prince Charles tests positive for coronavirus, symptoms 'mild' .
2020-03-25 12:20:17 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Prince Charles , the 71 - year - old heir to the British throne , has tested positive for coronavirus but is in good health and is now self isolating in Scotland with mild symptoms .
Britain 's Prince Charles speaks with guests during the Commonwealth Reception at Marlborough House , in London , Britain March 9 , 2020 .
Aaron Chown / Pool via REUTERS /
Files Charles , eldest son of Queen Elizabeth , is displaying what Clarence House said were mild symptoms but remains in good health and has been working from his Birkhall residence in Scotland .
His wife , Camilla , 72 , tested negative .
“ The Prince of Wales has tested positive for coronavirus , ” Clarence House said .
“ He has been displaying mild symptoms but otherwise remains in good health and has been working from home throughout the last few days as usual . ”
“ The Duchess of Cornwall has also been tested but does not have the virus , ” Clarence House said .
Queen Elizabeth who is currently at Windsor Castle is in good health , Buckingham Palace said .
A royal source said the Prince of Wales , who was tested on Monday and got the results on Tuesday , was advised the condition was unlikely to escalate into a more serious case .
Charles has spoken to both Queen Elizabeth and his children , Prince William and Harry .
QUEEN IN GOOD HEALTH
Charles last saw the 93 - year - old monarch on the morning of March 12 following an investiture , before the earliest time he would have been infectious .
“ Her Majesty The Queen remains in good health , ” Buckingham Palace said .
“ The Queen last saw The Prince of Wales briefly after the investiture on the morning of 12th March and is following all the appropriate advice with regard to her welfare . ”
A royal source said that the earliest Charles would have been infectious was March 13 .
Charles and Camilla went to Highgrove House , his residence in west England , on March 13 and then travelled to their Birkhall residence on the Balmoral estate in Scotland on Sunday .
Queen Elizabeth left London for Windsor Castle on March 19 .
She is with her 98 - year - old husband , Philip .
“ It is not possible to ascertain from whom the Prince caught the virus owing to the high number of engagements he carried out in his public role during recent weeks , ” Clarence House said .
Charles met Prince Albert of Monaco , who later tested positive , at a charity event in London on March 10 .
Editing by Alison Williams and Alexandra Hudson

UPDATE 1-Israeli defence group Elbit boosts profit, sees limited virus impact .
2020-03-25 11:41:09 +00:00 .
( Adds comments from CEO , CFO interview )
By Tova Cohen TEL AVIV , March 25 ( Reuters ) - Israeli defence electronics group Elbit Systems reported higher fourth - quarter profit , boosted by acquisitions and growth in its legacy businesses , and said it had not so far been substantially impacted by the coronavirus outbreak .
The maker of drones , pilot helmet displays and cybersecurity systems on Wednesday reported fourth - quarter earnings of $ 2.47 per diluted share excluding one - time items , up from $ 1.96 a year earlier .
Revenue rose to $ 1.32 billion from $ 1.08 billion .
In November 2018 , Elbit bought IMI from Israel ’s government for $ 500 million .
In September 2019 , it bought the night vision business of L3Harris Technologies for $ 350 million .
Shares in Elbit were up 3.6 % in early afternoon trade .
“ To date we have not experienced a material impact on our ongoing business from the COVID-19 pandemic , ” said Chief Executive Bezhalel Machlis .
He pointed to a strong order backlog , which climbed to $ 10.03 billion at the end of 2019 from $ 9.4 billion at the end of 2018 .
“ Most of our planned revenues for this year come from this backlog and the same for next year and we are expecting the backlog to grow in the first quarter based on several contracts we got , ” Machlis told Reuters .
Chief Financial Officer Joseph Gaspar said that if the crisis ends in the next several months , Elbit is optimistic regarding growth in 2020 .
“ If it goes on for a year or more then we will have to look at that again , ” he said .
Elbit is deemed an “ essential business ” in Israel and its factories are open .
Workers are split into two and sometimes three shifts for their safety , Machlis said , with the same true for its development centres .
The company has nearly 30 subsidiaries around the world , which are also operating “ more or less ” as usual .
“ We are using special cargo planes to deliver goods to our customers , ” Machlis said .
He said earlier this week Elbit rented a plane from El Al to deliver products to a customer in India and on the return transported hundreds of stranded Israelis .
Although there is a risk that countries ’ defence budgets will be shifted in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak , Machlis said Elbit ’s homeland security and cybersecurity businesses are seeing growing demand .
Its overseas subsidiaries stand to benefit after the crisis when governments will increase spending to create jobs , he said .
Elbit declared a dividend of 44 cents per share for the fourth quarter , the same as the third quarter .
( Reporting by Tova Cohen
Editing by Steven Scheer and Jane Merriman )

Australia central bank buys semi-government bonds as state revenues crunched by coronavirus .
2020-03-25 06:06:19 +00:00 .
SYDNEY ( Reuters ) -
Australia ’s central bank stepped into the semi - government bond market for the first time since launching its quantitative easing program to combat the coronavirus pandemic as state revenues deteriorate sharply .
FILE PHOTO :
Pedestrians walk past the Reserve Bank of Australia building in central Sydney , Australia , February 10 , 2017 .
REUTERS /
Steven Saphore
The Reserve Bank of Australia ( RBA ) on Wednesday bought A$ 2 billion ( $ 1.2 billion ) in semi - government bonds - issued by state and territories - with maturities ranging between January 2026 and June 2030 .
The semi - government market has been under severe liquidity stress in recent weeks with businesses across Australia forced halt operations as new lockdown measures kick in to curb the spread of the coronavirus .
State government revenues will also be severely hit as Australia pauses property auctions and buyer inspections of homes from midnight .
“ This has material implications for state government revenues , some of whom rely heavily on stamp duty from home sales , ” said ANZ economist David Plank .
“ As a consequence , we expect to see considerable near - term volatility in semi - government spreads . ”
With the number of coronavirus cases surpassing 2,250 in Australia , analysts say the restrictions on the movement of people will push the country into its first recession in three decades , lead to severe budget deficits and lift the supply of government securities .
“ On our analysis , the cyclical budget deterioration in the COVID-19 recession will potentially be in the order of 5 % of GDP , with risks to the upside , ” Westpac chief economist Bill Evans said .
Australia ’s budget had deteriorated by 5.6 % of its gross domestic product ( GDP ) during the last recession in the early 1990s .
Evans expects the budget to move from being in balance in the year - ended June 2019 to a deficit of A$ 90 billion in the current financial year and an even larger shortfall of A$ 160 billion next year .
This compares with the government ’s previous expectation in December of a surplus of A$ 5 billion for 2019/20 and A$ 6 billion for 2020/21 .
“ The stock of government securities on issue is set to jump , mirroring the cumulative budget deficit for the two years to 2020/21 , ” Evans added .
Westpac expects government issuances to climb to A$ 820 billion by June 2021 , up 51 % from June 2019 .
Since launching its “ unlimited ” quantitative easing program last Friday , the RBA has bought A$ 13 billion in sovereign bonds .
In a separate release , the central bank said it pumped A$ 2.4 billion into the banking system on Wednesday , while the surplus cash held by banks at the RBA hit a record A$ 53.6 billion .
The RBA also said it would offer $ 10 billion as part of a global effort to meet demand for the U.S. currency through a repo tender to be held on march 26 .
Reporting by Swati Pandey ;
Editing by Shri Navaratnam

Top sports postpone 2020 Olympic trials .
2020-03-25 01:25:56 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Qualifying trials for three of the United States ’ Olympic sports , athletics , swimming and gymnastics , have been postponed for 2020 officials said on Tuesday after the Tokyo Games were delayed a year because of the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
Artistic Gymnastics - 2019 World Artistic Gymnastics Championships - Women 's Floor Final - Hanns - Martin - Schleyer - Halle , Stuttgart , Germany - October 13 , 2019 Simone Biles of the U.S. in action REUTERS /
Wolfgang Rattay / File Photo
All three sports have top teams and major prospects for the Olympics which will now be held in 2021 - four - times gold medalist Simone Biles in gymnastics , swimmer Katie Ledecky , winner of five Olympic gold medals , and world sprint champions Christian Coleman and Noah Lyles in athletics .
“ Tracktown USA is now working with our partners at USA Track Field ( USATF ) and the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee ( USOPC ) in rescheduling the U.S. Olympic Team Trials - Track and Field , ” organizers for the previously scheduled June 19 - 28 competition in Eugene , Oregon , said in a statement .
USA Swimming and USA Gymnastics made public similar postponements in statements to Reuters .
The U.S. Olympic swimming trials had been scheduled for June 21 - 28 in Omaha , Nebraska with the gymnastics trials for June 25 - 28 in St. Louis , Missouri .
Olympic sources told Reuters new dates for all U.S. trials could not be set until the International Olympic Committee ( IOC ) determines the 2021 dates for the rescheduled Tokyo Games .
Other factors including timing and the availability of venues and broadcast networks must also be considered , the sources said .
The delayed Olympics are likely to mean the 2021 world athletics championships , scheduled for Eugene , would be pushed back to 2022 , World Athletics president Sebastian Coe has suggested .
That would prevent the challenge of having both the U.S. Olympic trials and the world championships being held within months of each other in Eugene , a city of about 170,000 where a new athletics stadium is being built .
“ USA Gymnastics will work together with the USOPC ( United States Olympic Committee ) and the St. Louis Sports Commission to reschedule the Olympic Trials , once the new dates for the Olympics Games have been set , ” the federation said .
“ We are hopeful that we will be able to hold Olympic Trials in St. Louis in 2021 . ”
USA Swimming president Tim Hinchey said his organization would seek to schedule a calendar of events that properly prepares the team for 2021 .
“ We will work closely with the USOPC on rescheduling the U.S. Olympic Team Trials - Swimming to best align with Olympic Games preparations as further details become known , ” he said in a statement .
Reporting by Gene Cherry in Salvo , North Carolina ;
Editing by Ken Ferris

As customers hoard pot brownies, North American weed firms see lockdown boost .
2020-03-25 00:48:48 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Cannabis sales are touching new highs as customers across the United States and Canada stockpile weed to prepare for long spells of isolation because of the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
Customers are given hand sanitizer before being allowed to enter The Reef Cannabis shop , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Seattle , Washington , U.S. , March 20 , 2020 . REUTERS /
Brian Snyder -/File Photo Between March 16 and March 22 , sales of recreational cannabis across key U.S. markets , including California , Colorado , Oregon and Alaska , were up 50 % and medical marijuana sales rose 41 % from the same period last year , figures obtained from cannabis point of sale and data platform Flowhub show .
Several U.S. states and Canadian provinces have taken steps to curb the fast - spreading coronavirus by issuing stay at home orders , restricting business operations , or closing down borders as death toll in both countries approaches 600 .
While many businesses have been ordered shut , cannabis stores have been listed as essential services and allowed to remain open .
In Ontario , Canada ’s most populous province , online sales on the government - run Ontario Cannabis Store ’s ( OCS ) website have soared over the last two weeks , OCS director of communications Daffyd Roderick , said .
For example , last weekend ’s orders were more than twice as high as only two weeks ago .
In Nova Scotia , which on Sunday became the latest province to declare coronavirus emergency , cannabis sales spiked 76 % last week , according to the province ’s liquor commission , which controls sales of cannabis there .
Fears of months of supply disruptions were boosting Canadian sales , Stuart Titus , CEO of California - based Medical Marijuana Inc ( MJNA.PK ) told Reuters .
“ We have seen stockpiling in Canada by consumers who have snapped up products from LPs ( licensed producers ) . ”
The surge in demand may offer pot producers a welcome respite after investors sold off cannabis stocks throughout much of last year as profits in the sector remained elusive .
Jamie Pearson , CEO of California - based Bhang Inc BHNG.CD , which makes cannabis - infused beverages , chocolates and other products , said sales were booming and should boost revenue and profits this quarter .
Pearson said edibles such as gummies , brownies , and chocolates , were most popular , probably because they were easier to store and eat , even with gloves on .
Still , Titus and others recommended caution , saying the long - awaited reversal of fortune could prove not much more than a short - lived relief .
“ The cannabis industry is showing itself to be recession - proof but at times like this , it ’s important to understand that the spike in consumer demand is probably not going to last long , ” Avis Bulbulyan , CEO of cannabis consulting firm Siva Enterprises , said .
( This story has been refiled to correct state to Alaska in second paragraph )
Reporting by Shariq Khan and Shanti S Nair in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Tomasz Janowski

Two more NYSE floor traders test positive for coronavirus: memo .
2020-03-25 00:46:50 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
A worker cleans the floor of the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) as the building prepares to close indefinitely due to the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in New York , U.S. , March 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lucas Jackson NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
At least two more New York Stock Exchange floor traders tested positive for the coronavirus on Tuesday despite measures taken to prevent people infected by the virus from entering the exchange while it remained physically open last week , according to a memo seen by Reuters .
“ Given the possibility of exposure , and consistent with local , state , and federal government guidance , we recommend that all those who worked on the NYSE Trading Floor over the last 14 days should self - quarantine until a two week symptom - free period has elapsed , ” Intercontinental Exchange Inc ( ICE.N)-owned NYSE said in a memo to traders .
New York City , home to more than 8 million people , has become a hot spot in the coronavirus pandemic , with 157 deaths and some 15,000 cases of COVID-19 reported as of Tuesday .
The NYSE kept its trading floor open last week , screening everyone entering 11 Wall Street , but temporarily shuttered the iconic open outcry space after market close on Friday , two days after a floor trader and an ICE employee tested positive for the virus .
At the time , the NYSE said neither person who tested positive with the virus had entered the building thanks to strict screening efforts and that it felt comfortable remaining open until the shift to fully electronic trading for the first time the exchange ’s 228 - year history the following week .
But the traders who tested positive on Tuesday were working on the floor last week in close quarters with other traders , according to a person with direct knowledge of the situation who asked to remain anonymous given the sensitivity of the matter .
“ Those previously tested whose results remain outstanding will be notified directly by the medical team when results become available , ” the NYSE said in the memo .
NYSE has not publicly commented on the new cases .
While the NYSE trading floor is temporarily closed over the health concerns , U.S.-listed stocks continue to trade electronically across all 13 active U.S. stock exchanges .
Reporting by John McCrank ; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan and Lincoln Feast .

Jet fuel refining profits disappear as airlines ground fleets .
2020-03-25 00:12:46 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) - Jet fuel prices are falling globally from Singapore to New York as airlines ground flights amid stringent travel restrictions to contain the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
A technician attaches a jet fuel supply pipe to an outlet in the tarmac at Changi airport in Singapore in this May 7 , 2008 file photo .
REUTERS / Vivek Prakash / Files Asian jet fuel refining margins have turned negative for the first time in over a decade , while jet fuel prices in New York fell to the lowest on record as demand for the fuel is anticipated to drop by as much as 70 % in the second quarter .
Most international flights are currently grounded as nations worldwide try to stem the pandemic , which has killed nearly 14,000 people and sickened more than 375,000 over the last few months .
“ Global air traffic is down by about 40 - 45 % at present , according to flight tracking sources , with further deterioration expected over the coming weeks as more flight restrictions and airline capacity reductions take effect , ” said Richard Gorry , managing director at JBC Energy Asia .
In the New York Harbor market , jet fuel traded at 30 cents a gallon below the futures contract for ultra low - sulfur diesel on Tuesday morning , traders said , the lowest on record .
The falling prices put pressure on refiners , who extract a profit from converting crude oil into fuels like gasoline , diesel and jet .
Asia ’s already - battered profit margins are expected to come under further pressure as there is no concrete recovery timeframe in sight , trade sources said .
“ We expect global jet / kero demand to fall by 4.3 million barrels per day ( bpd ) quarter - on quarter in Q2 - 2020 to just 2.5 million bpd , representing a year - on - year decline of 5.6 million bpd ( -70 % ) as air passenger travel activity is reduced to a minimum . ”
Refining margins for jet fuel plunged to minus 7 cents per barrel over Dubai crude on Monday , a level not seen in the last 11 years , according to Refinitiv Eikon data that goes back as far as March 2009 .
Also known as cracks , refining margins are the difference in value between the raw material , crude oil , and the products churned out by refineries .
A negative jet fuel refinery margin means refiners would lose money by producing the aviation fuel at current prices , indicating they will either reduce jet fuel output or lower overall refinery throughput .
( Graphic : Asia jet fuel margins dive into the red for the first time in 10 + years amid global lockdown , here )
“ I think the cracks have n’t gone to their worst yet .
Unless some vaccines come out soon , looks like it will really take some time to recover , ” a Singapore - based trader said , declining to be identified as he was not authorized to speak to media .
Traders said the market would remain under pressure until the third quarter , assuming the spread of the virus is contained by then .
Cracks for the aviation fuel in Singapore , which were above $ 10 a barrel as recently as March 10 , have plummeted recently and are currently trading at their worst levels in at least twelve years , Refinitiv Eikon data showed .
Australian fuel supplier Viva Energy said on Tuesday it expects jet fuel demand to plunge by up to 90 % , while its peer Caltex Australia forecast a similar demand drop during the period of flight cancellations .
Singapore ’s jet fuel prices are down nearly 54 % in March alone , while cash differentials for the aviation fuel in Singapore have slumped to their lowest levels in over a year .
Reporting by Koustav Samanta ;
Editing by Gavin Maguire , Richard Pullin and Marguerita Choy

Sewing machines become latest weapon against coronavirus as California volunteers swing into action .
2020-03-24 23:48:18 +00:00 .
OAKLAND , Calif. ( Reuters ) - Smita Paul has been sewing scarves and clothing for her small fashion business since 2003 but ever since the coronavirus struck the Bay Area and created a shortage in personal protective equipment for hospital workers , she has switched from sewing scarves to sewing masks .
FILE PHOTO :
Silvio Alecio , 48 , cuts face masks with scissors , after California Governor Gavin Newsom 's implemented statewide " stay at home order " directing the state 's 40 million residents to stay in their homes in the face of the fast - spreading coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , that will be donated to doctors , nurses and EMTs around the country , in Oakland , California , U.S. , March 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Shannon Stapleton
“ We are all horrified .
The idea of one of my friends having to go into this situation without having any protective gear , I just ca n’t imagine , ” said Paul .
“ If we can do one little thing , we ’re going to do it . ”
Paul is among a growing number eager to answer desperate calls from healthcare workers on social media and community forums asking for assistance in acquiring masks , gloves and other equipment needed to protect them against the pandemic that has killed at least 660 people in the United States and sickened more than 50,000 .
Craig Enis , 50 , works as a registered subacute nurse at Generations Healthcare in Walnut Creek , California .
He said the facility is running low on surgical masks , gowns for isolation rooms , and hand sanitizer .
“ N95 - masks are just nonexistent right now , ” he said .
Enis is afraid for himself as a healthcare worker and for his vulnerable patients , but nothing scares him more than possibly bringing home the virus to his two children .
“ It ’s incredibly scary because I ’m a single father , and they have no choice but to be with me , so whatever I come home with , they ’re exposed to , ” Enis said .
A Google spreadsheet circulating online showed informal requests for almost three dozen medical facilities in the Bay Area , including the University of California San Francisco Medical Center ( UCSF ) , Kaiser Permanente and Sutter Health .
Each request described items the facilities would accept and how to deliver them .
With California under a stay - at - home order , Paul rallied volunteer sewers to help .
She has posted an instructional video on YouTube , provided kits with materials , and coordinated deliveries .
“ We ’re all volunteering , and it just shows what a group of concerned citizens can do .
We ’ll probably get 100 masks out today , ” said Paul , whose company , Indigo Handloom , is partnering with community members , including City College of San Francisco ’s fashion department , to increase mask production .
Anne Cocquyt , 36 , in San Francisco , spent the weekend collecting unused and unopened boxes of N95 - masks for nurses at Kaiser .
She said she felt compelled to help after hearing reports on social media that nurses were cutting up plastic bottles to use as face shields .
“ That ’s when we said ‘ OK , we need to do something right now , ’ ” Cocquyt said .
“ This is a drop in the bucket but at the same time this might be one day ’s worth of supplies for the nurses in the ER . ”
In a statement , Kaiser Permanente said it was working to increase its supply of protective gear as quickly as possible and develop “ a process to efficiently collect , inventory , inspect , and distribute these donations . ”
UCSF , meanwhile , set up three donation sites that opened on Monday .
A statement called the donations critical for frontline employees .
Reporting by Nathan Frandino and Shannon Stapleton in Oakland and Robin Respaut in San Francisco ;
Editing by Matthew Lewis

French coronavirus death toll tops 1,000, lockdown likely to be extended .
2020-03-24 21:18:15 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - France became the fifth country to report more than 1,000 deaths from coronavirus on Tuesday and a government body dealing with the outbreak suggested the national lockdown imposed last week for an initial 15 days should last at least six weeks .
A security guard stands by beds installed inside the Festival palace as Cannes Mayor David Lisnard decided to open a part of the palace to welcome needy and homeless as a lockdown is imposed to slow the rate of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in France , March 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Eric Gaillard Health Minister Olivier Veran told a briefing he could not determine at this stage when the lockdown would end .
If the government were to follow the scientific council ’s advice , France would remain at a virtual standstill until April 28 .
A statement by the council , which advises President Emmanuel Macron on the coronavirus crisis , also said the lockdown was the only really efficient strategy at the moment and “ needs to be strictly implemented ” .
Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said on Monday the widespread lockdown in France could last several more weeks and his government was tightening restrictions on daily life even further .
Veran also said France would heed World Health Organization recommendations to increase coronavirus testing .
Health agency chief Jerome Salomon said later France would soon be able to conduct 10,000 tests a day .
Salomon reported 240 new deaths from coronavirus on Tuesday for a total of 1,100 , an increase of 28 % that made France the fifth nation to cross the 1,000 - fatalities threshold after - China , Italy , Iran and Spain .
This tally only accounts for people who died in public hospitals , whereas several retirement homes have been reporting deaths in the double digits .
Salomon said health authorities would soon be able to tabulate data coming from retirement homes , which will likely trigger a more dramatic increase in registered fatalities .
He said the total number of infections in France had risen to 22,300 , a 12 % jump in 24 hours .
Salomon added that 2,516 people were in a serious condition requiring life support , up by 21 % from Monday , and that 8,000 hospital beds were now equipped with ventilators .
Reporting Benoit Van Overstraeten ;
Editing by Mark Heinrich

Syrian ceasefire critical to combating coronavirus - U.N., Red Cross .
2020-03-24 19:04:12 +00:00 .
GENEVA ( Reuters ) -
An immediate nationwide ceasefire is needed across Syria to enable an “ all - out - effort ” to stamp out the coronavirus and prevent it from ravaging a beleaguered population , the United Nations and the International Committee of the Red Cross said on Tuesday .
Health workers put gloves on a man in a wheelchair along an empty street , as restrictions are imposed as measure to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Qamishli , Syria March 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Rodi Said Prisoners and millions of displaced people , especially those in rebel - held Idlib in the northwest , are especially vulnerable after nine years of war , they said .
Syrians are “ acutely vulnerable to COVID-19 , ” Geir Pedersen , the U.N. special envoy for Syria , said in a statement , and he appealed on humanitarian grounds for “ large - scale releases of detainees and abductees . ”
Fabrizio Carboni , ICRC regional director for the Near and Middle East , echoed the call for a ceasefire .
“ Because to some extent we ca n’t fight two battles at the same time , ” Carboni said in an interview with Reuters .
“ We ca n’t dedicate time and energy to what the pandemic response requires and at the same time be addressing the emergency needs of people recently displaced or destitute . ”
Carboni disclosed that the Swiss - based aid agency has asked Syrian authorities to allow it to help with infection prevention measures and to provide hygiene supplies at nine central prisons .
“ Now we hope that the authorities will answer positively very soon to our proposal , ” he said .
“ We believe that people detained and displaced are even more vulnerable than the general population . ”
The ICRC , whose largest humanitarian operation worldwide is in Syria , is the only agency allowed into its detention centres - where some experts estimate some 130,000 people are held .
The Assad government announced on Sunday its first coronavirus case after unconfirmed reports suggested the coronavirus had been detected but covered up , a charge officials denied .
“ Healthcare facilities have been destroyed or are degraded .
There is a shortage of key medical equipment and health professionals , ” Pedersen said .
The ICRC ’s Carboni said that while Syrian health officials say the number of cases is quite limited , quick action is needed to halt a spread , including the provision of clean water .
“ Even if there are five or 10 cases , our work would still be to focus on making sure that water reaches people because without water you ca n’t wash your hands , ” he said .
In al - Hasakah , the largest city in the northeast , a pumping station providing water to 800,000 people has been out of operation for three days and needs repair , he said .
“ We installed 45 water tanks all around the city and are water trucking until we can fix this pumping station and can have access , ” Carboni said .
The focus across Syria must be on prevention , he said .
“ Because when they start having cases , and if it gets out of hand , it ’s going to be very , very difficult to address , as we can see in many Western countries where they have way more sophisticated health systems , ” Carboni said .
He also noted the difficulties of putting in place general health guidance for containing the spread of the coronavirus .
“ The way to address the pandemic is to stay home , ” Carboni said .
“ But when you are an IDP ( internally displaced person ) , you do n’t have a home .
How do you do that ?
Certainly social distancing becomes a luxury . ”
Reporting by Stephanie Nebehay ;
Editing by Leslie Adler

When will I see you again? Coronavirus keeps couples apart .
2020-03-24 18:22:02 +00:00 .
MADRID ( Reuters ) - Andrea Chabant Sanchez , a Madrid - based publicist , normally travels to Paris once a month to see his girlfriend .
In January he booked his flights through to July .
Andrea Chabant Sanchez , 29 , video - calls his girlfriend Emma , 24 , from a park in Madrid while Emma is with her family in Normandy , France , January 30 , 2020 .
ANDREA CHABANT SANCHEZ /
Handout via REUTERS
Now those precious reunions are on hold , as ever - tightening travel restrictions prevent him , and many other separated couples around the world , from seeing each other .
“ I honestly do n’t know when I ’m going to see the person I love again , ” said Sanchez , who has not seen Emma Besancon , 24 , since before Spain declared a state of emergency on March 14 .
“ I always had a date : one for this month , next month ... ” said Sanchez , who is 29 .
“ Now there ’s no window . ”
Lola Gomez , a 22 - year - old drama student from Malaga , is also feeling the pain of separation .
“ It ’s only been eleven days , but it feels like I have n’t seen her in a month , ” she said of her girlfriend Sara Lozano , also 22 .
Lozano left the flat the couple normally shares in Madrid to join her family in Pamplona the day before national confinement was ordered .
Neither knows when they will next meet .
“ We ’ve been separated before , but this is n’t like Christmas or summer time , when it ’s long but you ’re doing a million other things , ” said Gomez .
“ This quarantine means a lot of time alone , thinking , asking yourself questions - a lot of time shut in too .
You miss your partner so much more .
To be honest , we ’re having a rough time of it . ”
SHARING A DRINK ...
REMOTELY Etienne Berges , a 26 - year - old humanitarian policy adviser working in Myanmar , will not be seeing his girlfriend , Amber Medland , as expected next month .
On March 16 , Myanmar made quarantine mandatory for anyone arriving from coronavirus - infected countries - meaning Medland , a 29 - year - old writer based in London , would spend her entire holiday in medical isolation .
“ We usually try to manage the distance by setting down dates , ” Berges said .
“ But ( the outbreak ) upended even our ability to do that . ”
Still , the couple is finding ways to be together across continents : surprise macaroon deliveries , video - calling while sharing a drink or watching the same TV show .
Gomez and Lozano have taken to dining together , and always video - call one another from bed at night .
“ That way , you give and get tenderness before sleeping , ” Gomez said .
It is not quite the same as the real thing , however .
“ The person you love should be the one person you can break confinement with , completely - because you lay beside them at night .
And I ca n’t , ” said Sanchez , who stayed alone in Madrid while Besancon went to be with her family in Normandy .
As the outbreak spreads , separated couples are facing the fact that days apart turn into weeks , and now possibly months .
“ Coronavirus questions the nature of long distance relationships , erases that peace of mind you used to get thinking , ‘ Oh , I can be there this afternoon ’ , ” Sanchez said .
“ The certainty is gone . ”
Reporting by Clara - Laeila Laudette ;
Editing by Mike Collett - White

Austria bets on mass testing to manage coronavirus spread .
2020-03-24 17:46:57 +00:00 .
VIENNA ( Reuters ) - Austria will massively expand coronavirus testing in coming days to locate and isolate infected people and avoid an Italian - like overload of its health system , Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said on Tuesday .
The opera house and empty streets are seen during the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Vienna , Austria March 19 , 2020 . REUTERS /
Leonhard Foeger / Files The Alpine republic with a population of 8.8 million has tested around 28,400 people so far with nearly 4,900 cases and 28 deaths confirmed .
It was one of the first European countries to put severe restrictions on movement and close shops and schools in response to the developments in neighbouring Italy and a strong increase in coronavirus infections in its western regions .
In coming weeks , Austria plans to test up to 15,000 people per day , the chancellor said .
“ We will also launch rapid tests , to test hundreds of thousands of people , as quickly as possible , ” Kurz told a news conference .
He referred to brand new tests that are comparably cheap but take longer than laboratory tests used up until now .
Broad testing is key to getting a clear picture of the real infection rate and an idea of how many people have developed immunity against the virus , the chancellor said .
Top priority was to delay the peak of infections as long as possible to avoid a situation like in Italy or Spain , where the health systems are overwhelmed .
“ Our goal is that the number of infections doubles only every 14 days and not every two , three or five days and that we will set the right measures to keep it that way once we ramp up social life again , ” Kurz said .
Austria ’s strict measures are in place until April 13 , and Kurz said there was hope that a gradual withdrawal could start the day after .
A government task force developing scenarios for the “ ramp up ” was currently dealing with questions such as in which order schools , businesses and production should restart .
Lessons from other countries showed that it was crucial to remain disciplined and to make use of “ big data ” .
Asked what he meant by “ big data ” , Kurz said : “ We are currently working with the Red Cross and other enterprises on ideas that could be implemented in Austria and in Europe , and which are suitable for our system and our democracy . ”
Austria ’s Red Cross is promoting a so - called “ Stop Corona ” app , which enables a user to digitally store who he meets and when .
If a person shows symptoms of corona disease , these contact persons can be notified .
Austria ’s mobile carrier A1 Telekom Austria is already sharing results from a motion analysis application that visualizes the movement flows of groups of people with the health authority .
Reporting by Kirsti Knolle ;
editing by Scot W. Stevenson and Nick Macfie

Spanish doctors, nurses demand action after coronavirus cases soar .
2020-03-24 17:15:02 +00:00 .
MADRID ( Reuters ) - Nurses and doctors demanded action after Spain reported its sharpest daily increase in coronavirus cases on Tuesday and said about 14 % of the nearly 40,000 infections were among health workers .
Nursing union SATSE said Madrid ’s hospitals were on “ the verge of collapse ” and needed urgent support , while a doctors ’ union said it had filed a lawsuit demanding protective equipment within 24 hours .
The capital ’s Palacio de Hielo mall , home to an Olympic - sized ice rink , began operating as a makeshift mortuary after authorities said facilities were unable to cope .
The Health Ministry reported around 6,600 new cases and 500 deaths overnight .
Spain is Europe ’s worst - hit country after Italy and has recorded 2,696 deaths .
Health emergency chief Fernando Simon attributed the nearly 14 % infection rate among medical staff to limited availability of protective equipment and several early clusters of the virus occurring in hospitals .
He said pressure on intensive - care units would continue even after transmission of the virus among the general population had peaked .
Madrid ’s AMYTS doctors ’ union said it had filed a lawsuit to force the regional health authority to deliver scrubs , masks and goggles to hospitals and other health centres .
A spokesman for the authority declined to comment .
Meanwhile , the government approved a burden - sharing scheme to help banks cope with loan non - payments as a result of the crisis .
The state guaranteed around 80 % of unpaid loans owed by small- to medium - sized companies and self - employed workers , and released an initial tranche of 20 billion euros .
A member of the Spanish army talks with Spanish National policemen outside an ice rink which will be used as a morgue , during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Madrid , Spain , March 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Juan Medina The measures are part of an unprecedented 200 billion euros package approved last week to help companies and workers cope with mass stoppages .
NURSING HOME CRISIS
Prosecutors in Catalonia opened an investigation into two nursing homes , the prosecutor general ’s office said , after at least 13 residents died of the virus at a home in Capellades and nine more at a home in Olesa de Montserrat .
Olesa ’s local government warned of a critical situation due to a lack of staff .
Military units dispatched to help care homes comply with sanitary regulations disinfected 179 facilities on Monday and planned to clean another 96 on Tuesday , officials said .
The state prosecutor launched a separate investigation after the army found unattended bodies at some homes .
In the southern region of Andalusia , the mayor of a small town pleaded for help after reporting 38 of 42 residents at the local nursing home had tested positive for the virus , along with 60 % of staff .
“ We need oxygen , ambulances and hospitals , ” Alcala del Valle ’s Mayor Rafael Aguilera said in a video posted on the town ’s Facebook page .
“ A person died in our arms because we could n’t get hold of oxygen . ”
Madrid long accounted for around half of Spain ’s coronavirus cases but data published on Tuesday showed it now had just under a third of the total , a sign the epidemic is spreading throughout the country .
As traffic through Spanish airports fell by 82 % since a state of emergency began on March 14 , airport operator Aena said it would close most terminals at Madrid and Barcelona ’s main airports .
Reporting by Emma Pinedo , Inti Landauro , Raul Cadenas , Julien Hennequin , Joan Faus ;
Writing by Nathan Allen ; Editing by Andrei Khalip and Janet Lawrence

Belgian home nurse battles on multiple fronts as coronavirus spreads .
2020-03-24 16:49:17 +00:00 .
BRUSSELS ( Reuters ) - After visiting about 20 chronically ill patients in a day , Hajar Atila , a Belgian home nurse , leaves her clothes in her garage and takes a shower before stepping into her home and cuddling her children .
Hajar Atila , a Belgian home nurse , takes care of her patient Anna Edith Slepicka at her home during the coronavirus lockdown imposed by the Belgian government in an attempt to slow down the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Brussels , Belgium March 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Yves Herman
The precautions , which also include a high - temperature wash for her work outfit each day , are to minimize the risk of spreading the coronavirus to her family .
Belgium has reported nearly 4,300 infections and 122 deaths as the disease spreads around Europe .
With hospitals discharging patients who would normally be hospitalized to free up beds for coronavirus patients , the country ’s 32,000 home nurses are coming under increasing pressure .
Atila , who manages Infirmiere Nursante , a home nursing care company employing 8 people in Brussels , said the new normal is juggling protective equipment shortages and contamination risks with calls to pharmacies and runs to supermarkets for the patients isolated at home .
“ We are afraid for our families , for our patients , we are afraid of precipitating their death because they are fragile , sometimes in palliative care , ” Atila , 30 , told Reuters .
“ It ’s not just about showering our patients .
It ’s doing insulin injections , sometimes dialysis , sometimes chemotherapy , antibiotic therapy .
Sometimes , we are the only visit in the day of an elderly person , ” she said .
Most of the people she cares for are elderly , making them most vulnerable to the effects of the coronavirus , and some have no family to visit them .
Because of high exposure to coronavirus and the lack of adequate protection , health professionals account for four percent of confirmed cases of the coronavirus Belgium , a spokesman for the health ministry told reporters on Tuesday .
Faced with equipment shortages , a federation of hospitals and care homes for Belgium ’s regions of Brussels and Wallonia , known as Santhea , called for private donations .
“ The first emergency is the personal protective equipment : protective gowns , protective glasses , overshoes and of course masks , ” said Valerie Victoor of Santhea .
Some are heeding the call .
Audrey Jacques , an artist and stylist who has been stuck at home since Belgium introduced a virtual lockdown on March 18 , has spent time producing homemade masks .
“ It is our job .
If we can help we are also here for that , it keeps us busy and helps those around us , ” Jacques said .
Reporting by Marine Strauss ; Editing by Gabriela Baczynska and
Mike Collett - White

Fear gauges throttle back after rollercoaster run .
2020-03-24 16:49:00 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Stock and currency fear gauges that soared to the levels of the 2008 global financial crisis have become less frantic since central banks and governments stepped up efforts to combat spreading economic damage from the coronavirus epidemic .
FILE PHOTO :
Floor traders work space is seen on the trading floor after the closing bell , following traders testing positive for Coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , at the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) in New York , U.S. , March 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lucas Jackson
But while that decline in market volatility will offer some respite to battered investors , it is too soon to declare that markets have bottomed out after a 30 % cliff - edge drop from record highs .
The Cboe Volatility Index , known as Wall Street ’s fear gauge , is at 52 points , well below its March 16 record closing high of 82.7 .
“ To get investors back into the market I really would like to see the VIX not making new highs , ” said Andrew Sheets , head of cross - asset strategy at Morgan Stanley in London .
“ That would be a positive sign and consistent with the market bottoms we saw in 2009 , 2016 etc . ”
The stock market selloff led investors to draw comparisons with the 2008 crisis , when markets bottomed six months after the VIX blow out .
( Graphic : VIX top , market bottom 2008 vs 2020 , here )
Currency volatility has also throttled back , though it remains relatively high .
A Deutsche Bank index for currency volatility .DBCVIX
in recent days jumped to its highest in its eight - year old history , pressuring hedge funds and risk parity funds to unwind leveraged positions in a selloff characterized as a value - at - risk shock .
The Deutsche indicator has retreated over the last two sessions but remains as 14 % , twice its life - time average .
Prior to the coronavirus - induced reversal , bets against volatility enjoyed a long run of popularity that continued up to January and with net short positions on VIX futures contracts 11170E1NNET hitting a record at end-2019 as investors remained convinced that policymakers would keep market fluctuations in check .
Now , massive stimulus from central banks and governments - including Monday ’s announcement by the Fed that it would buy unlimited bonds and backstop direct loans to companies - “ has stabilized market volatility to some extent , ” said Vasileios Gkionakis , head of FX strategy at Lombard Odier .
Traders typically set limits against potential losses in their operations by calculating VaR - a statistical measure used to quantify an expected loss over a specified horizon at a certain confidence level in normal markets .
VaR can tell a bank ’s management how big the following day ’s maximum loss for a trading floor might be .
Based on previous market volatility and return metrics , a lower VAR reading would encourage traders to raise the size of their trading positions in a low volatility environment , and vice versa .
When volatility jumps as happened when the coronavirus started spreading across the globe , these investors exceed their limits , forcing them to cut positions rapidly in a falling market .
JP Morgan calculated that last week ’s VaR shock was the biggest since Lehman collapsed in September 2008 .
The VIX equity gauge typically jumps at times of panic among investors , and markets remain worried that lockdowns caused by the virus could trigger the deepest recession in decades .
“ We are moving 4 % a day and that kind of high vol is unhealthy .
I think that vol needs to stabilize before the broader market can heal , ” Morgan Stanley ’s Sheets added .
( Graphic : FX volatility , here )
Reporting by Saikat Chatterjee , Thyagaraju Adinarayan and Sujata Rao ;
editing by John Stonestreet

METALS-Copper bounces 6% on stimulus, but gains seen short-lived .
2020-03-24 15:31:32 +00:00 .
* China copper treatment charges fall on uncertain supply
* Copper market shifts to global surplus in December
* Global nickel surplus widens in January ( Adds comments on zinc , dollar , updates prices )
By Eric Onstad LONDON , March 24 ( Reuters ) -
Copper prices rebounded by more than 6 % on Tuesday on the back of a new wave of U.S. economic stimulus and worries about supply due to the coronavirus , but analysts said that the market ’s gains were likely to be fleeting .
Industrial metals joined wider financial markets in rebounding after the U.S. Federal Reserve offered unlimited bond buying , sending more dollar liquidity into the global economy .
Also supporting base metal prices were further virus - linked shutdowns in metal - producing countries , which will lead to lower mine output .
But independent consultant Robin Bhar said that the collapse in demand so far was sharply outweighing mine closures .
“ Supply constraints are appearing , but all of Chile and central Africa would have to shut down to kick out enough supply of copper to match the potential fall we ’re seeing in demand , ” he said .
Chile is the world ’s top copper producer , accounting for nearly a third of global mine output .
“ This is a corrective bounce , we ’re not nearly out of the woods yet .
At the moment , any bounces are there for profit taking or to be sold into .
I think we need to be prepared for more losses in industrial metals , ” Bhar said .
Three - month copper on the London Metal Exchange ( LME ) surged 6.1 % to $ 4,910 a tonne by 1510 GMT , the biggest one - day gain since May 2013 .
Copper , widely used in construction and power sectors , has slumped by a fifth on the LME so far this year .
FUNDAMENTALS
* DOLLAR :
Also bolstering metals prices was a weaker dollar , which makes commodities priced in the U.S. currency cheaper for buyers using other currencies .
* ZINC SHORT :
The net speculative short position on LME zinc has risen to 38 % of open interest , in line with the peak seen in November 2015 , broker Marex Spectron said in a note .
* COPPER TREATMENT :
Charges for processing copper concentrate in China have fallen for the first time since December , as the coronavirus outbreak leaves smelters uncertain about future supply .
* COPPER BALANCE :
The global world refined copper market showed a 68,000 tonnes surplus in December , compared with a 49,000 tonnes deficit in November .
* ALUMINIUM SPREAD :
The discount of LME cash aluminium over the three - month contract CMAL0 - 3 expanded to $ 34 a tonne , a level unseen since May 2019 , indicating healthy nearby supplies in LME warehouses .
LME inventories MALSTX - TOTAL have gained 14 % over the past week , rising to 1.1 million tonnes , the highest in a month .
Three - month aluminium was the weakest performer on the LME , rising 1 % to $ 1,576 a tonne .
* NICKEL :
The global nickel market surplus widened to 13,100 tonnes in January from a surplus of 5,200 tonnes in the previous month .
* PRICES :
LME nickel gained 3.5 % to $ 11,260 a tonne , zinc added 2.3 % to $ 1,861 , lead advanced 1.3 % to $ 1,634.50 and tin climbed 2.9 % to $ 13,630 .
* For the top stories in metals and other news , click or ( $ 1 = 7.0732 Chinese yuan )
( Reporting by Eric Onstad ;
editing by John Stonestreet / William Maclean / Jane Merriman )

When will I see you again? Coronavirus keeps couples apart .
2020-03-24 15:10:47 +00:00 .
MADRID , March 24 ( Reuters ) -
Andrea Chabant Sanchez , a Madrid - based publicist , normally travels to Paris once a month to see his girlfriend .
In January he booked his flights through to July .
Now those precious reunions are on hold , as ever - tightening travel restrictions prevent him , and many other separated couples around the world , from seeing each other .
“ I honestly do n’t know when I ’m going to see the person I love again , ” said Sanchez , who has not seen Emma Besancon , 24 , since before Spain declared a state of emergency on March 14 .
“ I always had a date : one for this month , next month ... ” said Sanchez , who is 29 .
“ Now there ’s no window . ”
Lola Gomez , a 22 - year - old drama student from Malaga , is also feeling the pain of separation .
“ It ’s only been eleven days , but it feels like I have n’t seen her in a month , ” she said of her girlfriend Sara Lozano , also 22 .
Lozano left the flat the couple normally shares in Madrid to join her family in Pamplona the day before national confinement was ordered .
Neither knows when they will next meet .
“ We ’ve been separated before , but this is n’t like Christmas or summer time , when it ’s long but you ’re doing a million other things , ” said Gomez .
“ This quarantine means a lot of time alone , thinking , asking yourself questions - a lot of time shut in too .
You miss your partner so much more .
To be honest , we ’re having a rough time of it . ”
SHARING A DRINK ...
REMOTELY Etienne Berges , a 26 - year - old humanitarian policy adviser working in Myanmar , will not be seeing his girlfriend , Amber Medland , as expected next month .
On March 16 , Myanmar made quarantine mandatory for anyone arriving from coronavirus - infected countries - meaning Medland , a 29 - year - old writer based in London , would spend her entire holiday in medical isolation .
“ We usually try to manage the distance by setting down dates , ” Berges said .
“ But ( the outbreak ) upended even our ability to do that . ”
Still , the couple is finding ways to be together across continents : surprise macaroon deliveries , video - calling while sharing a drink or watching the same TV show .
Gomez and Lozano have taken to dining together , and always video - call one another from bed at night .
“ That way , you give and get tenderness before sleeping , ” Gomez said .
It is not quite the same as the real thing , however .
“ The person you love should be the one person you can break confinement with , completely - because you lay beside them at night .
And I ca n’t , ” said Sanchez , who stayed alone in Madrid while Besancon went to be with her family in Normandy .
As the outbreak spreads , separated couples are facing the fact that days apart turn into weeks , and now possibly months .
“ Coronavirus questions the nature of long distance relationships , erases that peace of mind you used to get thinking , ‘ Oh , I can be there this afternoon ’ , ” Sanchez said .
“ The certainty is gone . ”
( Reporting by Clara - Laeila Laudette ;
Editing by Mike Collett - White )

UPDATE 2-Hungarian central bank holds rates, acts to boost liquidity .
2020-03-24 15:02:23 +00:00 .
( Recasts with central bank statement , analyst , forint )
* Base rate stays at 0.9 % , overnight depo rate -0.05 % * Decision in line with analysts ’ forecasts
* Bank launches new liquidity measures
* Bank sees inflation dropping sharply
By Krisztina Than and Gergely Szakacs BUDAPEST , March 24 ( Reuters ) - Hungary ’s central bank launched new measures to boost liquidity on Tuesday and said inflation would drop below its 3 % target in the coming months due to the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic which will dent economic growth this year .
The Monetary Council left interest rates on hold and decided to introduce a new fixed - rate collateralised loan instrument .
Lending will be provided at a fixed interest rate by the National Bank of Hungary with unlimited liquidity .
The NBH also released domestic counterparty credit institutions from the reserve requirement with immediate effect .
“ To address the challenges posed by the pandemic , it is key to ensure the required level of liquidity .
In order to preserve effective monetary policy transmission , the Monetary Council is ready to take further measures to provide additional liquidity , ” the rate - setting Monetary Council said in a statement .
The bank expects inflation to slow to 2.6 - 2.8 % this year , below its previous forecast .
It said the economy would slow in the first half of this year but then rebound later .
nS8N2B2063
“ The bank for the time being focuses on providing sufficient liquidity for the banking system and the markets , and has not yet decided on bond buying in the secondary market , ” CIB analysts said in a note .
The National Bank of Hungary ( NBH ) has already boosted short - term market liquidity via its FX swaps and broadened the range of permissible collateral with corporate loans , helping the country ’s banks .
The government has imposed a blanket moratorium on all loan repayments through end-2020 .
In Central Europe , the Czech , Polish and Romanian central banks have cut interest rates to help economies as recession fears escalated .
The pandemic has wrought havoc on the global economy , prompting big car makers to halt production at their factories in Hungary .
The NBH has said it would consider resuming its mortgage bond buying programme to curb borrowing costs .
In a March 16 - 19 Reuters poll , 13 of 15 economists said the NBH would leave its base rate steady at 0.9 % .
One analyst projected a 10 - basis - point reduction , another expected a 15 - basis - point cut .
The forint , which sank to record lows near 360 versus the euro last week , traded around 352.51 after the rate decision on Tuesday , and eased to 354.80 after the bank ’s comments .
( Reporting by Krisztina Than , Editing by Larry King , William Maclean )

Egypt declares two-week curfew to counter coronavirus .
2020-03-24 14:05:42 +00:00 .
CAIRO ( Reuters ) - Egypt has declared a curfew from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. for two weeks from Wednesday to prevent the spread of coronavirus , and those who violate the measure will be penalized under emergency laws , the prime minister said .
An Egyptian citizen watchs TV broadcasting the speech of Egypt 's Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly , at an almost empty coffee shop , following the government instructions with immediate effect as Egypt ramps up its efforts to slow down the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Cairo , Egypt , March 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Mohamed Abd El Ghany Flights , which were suspended at Egyptian airports on March 19 , will remain grounded for the first two weeks of April , the state information minister said .
A closure of schools and universities will also be extended to mid - April , while cafes , sports clubs and gyms will be shut for the next two weeks and restaurants will be restricted to home delivery only .
Shops other than food stores and pharmacies will be required to close from 5 p.m. , two hours earlier than previously , as well as at weekends .
Those who do not respect the new rules face fines of up to 4,000 Egyptian pounds ( $ 255 ) or prison , Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly said in a televised press briefing .
“ I call on all Egyptians to fully comply with these measures , ” President Abdel Fattah al - Sisi said on Twitter .
“ And I affirm that all elements of the Egyptian state will confront any attempts to breach them with the utmost firmness and resolution . ”
Egypt has confirmed 366 cases of coronavirus , including 19 deaths .
Most early cases were linked to a cruise ship on the Nile from which a large group of foreigners tested positive , dealing an early blow to the country ’s crucial tourism sector .
Senior officials have sought to reassure the public that they are able to contain coronavirus , and that they are publishing information on cases quickly and transparently .
“ Compared to surrounding countries , we are still at the stage of being able to contain the spread of the epidemic , ” Madbouly said .
Ahead of the briefing , state TV aired a video that highlighted strict measures taken in China to combat coronavirus , with a caption “ Egypt can defeat coronavirus like China . ”
Footage showed workers spraying disinfectant in central Cairo .
Authorities face a challenge tackling the virus in a country of 100 million where much of the population is concentrated in fertile areas around the Nile and public health services can be severely stretched .
On social media , many had criticized the government for not halting services in mosques and churches before Saturday , when that decision was announced .
Listing the latest measures , Madbouly said almost all government offices would now close their doors to the public .
He urged citizens to limit movement between towns and cities , and said a measure to restrict the number of government employees going to work would be prolonged until mid - April .
Separately , the government said it was allocating one billion Egyptian pounds ( $ 63.69 million ) to the health ministry to help it provide supplies .
Like other countries , Egypt has also taken steps to try to curtail the impact of coronavirus on the economy , including a surprise 3 % cut to interest rates and an injection of 20 billion Egyptian pounds to support the stock market .
( $ 1 = 15.7000 Egyptian pounds )
Additional reporting by Moamen Saeed Atallah ; Editing by Alison Williams and
Barbara Lewis

Africans improvise sanitizers, masks to plug shortages .
2020-03-24 13:08:49 +00:00 .
CAPE TOWN ( Reuters ) -
When panic over the coronavirus spurred a run on hand sanitizer in Cape Town , gin maker Andre Pienaar realized there was something he could do with all the waste alcohol his small distillery produces .
Distiller Andre Pienaar mixes up a batch of 70 percent alcohol , a by - product of the gin making process , which he makes available as hand sanitiser to restrict the outbreak of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Cape Town , South Africa , March 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Mike Hutchings
He had 140 liters of the 70 percent ethanol waste - called “ gin heads ” in the trade - just sitting around , so he posted on social media that anyone who needed some could have it for free to turn into the hand wash at home .
“ The response was crazy .
It was finished in three hours and there was a limit of one liter per person , ” he told Reuters .
He has now started selling the ethanol his Pienaar and Son Distilling Company is still producing .
“ There is nothing on the shelves for people other than soap at the moment .
It is just another option to help protect people , ” he said .
Across Africa , dwindling supplies of sanitizer and surgical masks could prove a boon for entrepreneurs seeking to plug shortages .
Amateur chemists in Nigeria and Kenya are mixing up hand wash , while enterprising tailors in Rwanda are sewing their own masks .
Health officials warn that wearing masks in public wo n’t protect you from the virus , and say sanitizer only works if it ’s more than 60 percent alcohol - and even then soap and water are better .
But those warnings have not stopped customers flocking to Alexander Nshimiyimana , a tailor based in Kigali ’s main market .
He is using kitenge , a kaleidoscopic local fabric , to make masks that are not only cheaper but much prettier than the standard hospital - style ones .
“ It is a kind of opportunity to some people to make money .
It is also ( an ) opportunity to innovate , ” Nshimiyimana said .
The continent of 1.3 billion has recorded only around 1,100 cases in 43 countries , with 39 deaths , a fraction of the more than 305,000 people infected and more than 13,000 deaths worldwide .
But there are concerns that Africa ’s creaky health infrastructure could be overrun as the virus spreads .
“ A mask will not protect you from the infection , it will protect others if you wear it from getting infected should you have symptoms .
So in this respect also a piece of cloth works , ” James Ayodele , spokesman of the Centre for Disease Control ( CDC ) Africa office .
Ayodele said that the CDC also advised against making sanitizer at home because it contains alcohol at a potentially dangerous high concentration .
But Moji Kusanu , a chef in Nigeria ’s commercial hub of Lagos , decided to respond to an obvious shortage - after prices shot up to 1,700 naira ( $ 5.55 ) for a 200ml bottle , from 200 naira before .
She customized an online sanitizer recipe , which recommended mixing alcohol with aloe vera gel , by adding glycerine for extra moisturizing effect .
“ Sometimes , when you are out you can not wash your hands .
sanitizers can ... make a difference , ” she said
Additional reporting by Themistocle Hakizimana and Jackson Njehia in Kigale , Angela Ukomadu in Lagos and Giulia Paravicini in Addis Ababa ; Writing by Tim Cocks ;
Editing by Andrew Heavens

UPDATE 1-Weak Brazilian retail sales show consumers cautious even before coronavirus .
2020-03-24 12:55:48 +00:00 .
( Adds detail )
By Jamie McGeever BRASILIA , March 24 ( Reuters ) -
The Brazilian consumer kicked off the year on a soft footing , official figures on Tuesday showed , as retail sales fell at the fastest rate in over a year in January , well before the anticipated hit to spending from the coronavirus pandemic .
Sales fell 1.0 % in January , government statistics agency IBGE said , weaker than the median forecast in a Reuters poll of economists for a 0.6 % decline and the steepest monthly fall since December 2018 .
December ’s figures were revised down sharply too , with retail sales now shown to have fallen 0.5 % on the month compared with the initial estimate of a 0.1 % decline , IBGE said .
On a year - on - year basis , sales rose 1.3 % from January 2019 , less than the 3.5 % predicted in the Reuters poll , while over the course of 2019 , sales rose 1.8 % from 2018 , IBGE said .
Latin America ’s largest economy was expected to grow more than 2 % this year , the fastest rate since 2013 , according to consensus estimates in January .
The consumer was supposed to be a key driver of that growth .
Recession and outright contraction this year are now the most likely scenario thanks to the coronavirus fallout , according to a growing number of economists .
But Tuesday ’s retail sales figures show consumers were already cautious .
IBGE analyst Cristiano Santos said the 1.3 % annual growth rate showed momentum is losing steam .
“ It is growth , but it ’s slowing every year .
( Sales ) remain 5.4 % below the record level reached in October 2014 , ” he said .
Santos declined to speculate on how the coronavirus will affect sales in the coming months .
But with businesses being shuttered across the country and people staying indoors , economists say it is inevitable they will be hit hard .
( Reporting by Jamie McGeever ;
Editing by Andrew Heavens and Steve Orlofsky )

African jazz legend Manu Dibango dies from coronavirus in France .
2020-03-24 12:20:48 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) - World - famous singer and saxophonist Manu Dibango has died from a coronavirus infection at the age of 86 in France , his management team said on Tuesday .
Cameroonian saxophonist Manu Dibango attends the opening ceremony of the 9th edition of MASA ( Market for African Performing Arts ) at the culture palace of Abidjan , Ivory Coast March 5 , 2016 .
Picture taken March 5 , 2016 .
REUTERS / Luc Gnago
“ It is with deep sadness that we announce the loss of Manu Dibango , our Papy Groove , who passed away on March 24 , 2020 , at 86 years old , further to Covid 19 , ” read a statement on Dibango ’s Facebook page .
Cameroon - born Dibango arrived in France in the early 1950s and studied jazz and saxophone in the northern city of Reims , where he started playing in clubs , according to a biography on his Facebook page .
Dibango died early Tuesday morning in a hospital in the Paris region , Thierry Durepaire , a member of the artist ’s management team , told Reuters .
In the early 1960s , his style of playing took on more African rhythms as he collaborated with Brussels - based musicians from Congo and he began touring in Africa , developing his trademark pumping saxophone rhythms .
“ Sax is sexy .
I play other instruments too , but my voice sounds best through a saxophone , ” Dibango - who also played piano , organ and vibraphone - told French music programme Basique last year .
In the late 1960s , Dibango started his own band , played with a string of French musicians and in 1972 he had a major hit with “ Soul Makossa ” , a song that brought him international success and was reinterpreted by many other artists .
In 2009 , Dibango filed a lawsuit in a Paris court against the producers of Michael Jackson for using the “ Mamase , mamasa , makossa ” riff from Soul Makossa .
The riff became world - famous through Jackson ’s hit “ Wanna Be Startin ’ Somethin’ ” .
The case was later settled out of court .
In an interview in 2019 , Dibango said the song was now there for all to use .
“ It has moved beyond me .
It is good in a way , once a song becomes a standard , it no longer belongs to the composer but to the person who interprets it , ” he said .
On Dibango ’s 1992 album Wakafrika , produced in France , he reinterpreted a string of African hits and played with top African stars including Youssou N’dour , King Sunny Adé , Salif Keïta , Angélique Kidjo and Papa Wemba , as well as British rock singers Peter Gabriel and Sinéad O’Connor .
In 2010 , Dibango received the “ legion d’honneur ” medal in his adopted country France .
He was diagnosed with a coronavirus infection earlier this month .
Last year , on the sidelines of a tour celebrating 60 years on stage , he said jazz music needed to have a danceable beat .
“ We are the leg specialists , things have to move , that is how I see music , ” he said .
Additional reporting by Bate Felix ; Writing by Geert De Clercq ;
Editing by Raissa Kasolowsky

Ticket holders monitor possible Games postponement .
2020-03-24 10:52:04 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Holders of tickets for the Tokyo Olympics face an anxious wait as the future of the Games hangs in the balance , following media reports they might not get a refund in case of a postponement or cancellation .
Tokyo 2020 have n’t confirmed how many tickets have been sold but in the bidding process , organisers said over seven million seats would be available .
All domestic tickets for the Olympics have been sold , according to organisers .
In the most recent Games budget from December 2019 , organisers said $ 800 million had been raised through ticket sales .
Now , with the International Olympic Committee and Tokyo organisers saying postponement is being considered in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak , ticket holders are worried about what this means for them .
Last week , the Asahi Shimbun newspaper reported tickets might not be refundable , citing Olympic organisers and contractual details connected to the tickets .
Kokoro Yamada has two tickets for the closing ceremony , which have cost her 440,000 yen ( $ 3,980 ) .
Yamada turns 30 the day after the Games closing ceremony on August 9 and the tickets were a present to herself .
“ In case of postponement , it is a little disappointing because the closing ceremony is the day before my birthday ...
so I was thinking it would be a very special day , ” she said .
Yamada said she has read through the tickets terms and conditions several times but still can not work out what postponement would mean .
When previously contacted about ticket refunds , Tokyo 2020 organisers said they were monitoring the situation .
“ The terms and conditions do not state that ‘ tickets can not be refunded ’ , so the article is not accurate , ” Tokyo 2020 organisers said .
Another Tokyoite , Keiko Morita , has spent approximately 2 million yen on tickets , including for the opening ceremony .
Despite being worried over the inconvenience postponement would cause her , Morita can go next year and understands the world is going through an unprecedented crisis .
“ Of course it would be disappointing ...
but of course this crisis is happening all over the world , ” said Morita , who lives in Tokyo .
“ It is not just about me and about the Olympics .
There are many people in pain so we must accept it . ”
Others are less certain they will be able to attend a rearranged Games .
FILE PHOTO :
The ticket designs for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics are seen displayed for the media for a photo opportunity in Tokyo , Japan , January 15 , 2020 , in this photo taken by Kyodo .
Mandatory credit Kyodo / via REUTERS /
File Photo “ I am worried about what I should do .
I adjusted my schedule and bought them , ” said businesswoman Manari Osaki .
“ If the Olympic games are postponed , it will mess up my plans and I may not be able to go see the Games . ”
The IOC have given themselves a deadline of four weeks to decide on the fate of the Tokyo 2020 Games , although the torch relay is scheduled to begin on Thursday .
Reporting by Jack Tarrant ; additional reporting by Sarah Aoyagi ; editing by Lincoln Feast .

Olympics: Australia's Coates, the man in the middle stuck with a muddle .
2020-03-24 08:48:47 +00:00 .
SYDNEY / MEBOURNE ( Reuters ) -
The surest sign that the tide had turned definitively against plans to press ahead with the Tokyo Games this year might have come on Monday when the Australian Olympic Committee ( AOC)instructed its athletes to prepare for 2021 .
FILE PHOTO :
International Olympic Committee member John Coates attends the International Olympic Committee ( IOC ) 135th Session in Lausanne , Switzerland , January 10 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Denis Balibouse / File Photo
The decision was made after a meeting of the AOC board chaired by John Coates , which unanimously agreed that restrictions introduced to contain the coronavirus made it impossible to send a team to Tokyo in July .
Coates , self - isolating after a trip to Lausanne , did not recuse himself from the teleconference and played a full part in a meeting that concluded with the decision that Australian athletes would not go to Japan this year .
Given that AOC President Coates is also the head of the International Olympic Committee ( IOC ) ’s
Coordination Commission for the Tokyo Games , it was quite a statement .
Coates , an IOC vice president and close ally of IOC President Thomas Bach , had religiously followed the official line that the Games would go ahead as planned on July 24 up until last week .
After the AOC statement was released , Coates immediately self - imposed another lockdown , this time on the media , and started working on plans to deliver the Games in 2021 .
The 69 - year - old lawyer certainly knows his way around a Summer Games having made his name in Olympic circles by playing a leading role in the bid for , and successful delivery of , the 2000 edition in his home city of Sydney .
Coates was a cox who cut his teeth in sports administration at Rowing Australia before going on to lead his country ’s delegation as Chef de Mission at six Summer Games from 1988 .
Renowned as a fine administrator with the interests of athletes firmly at heart , he can also be a fierce adversary .
Coates famously refused to shake the hand of John Wylie at an athletics meet in Melbourne in 2017 and insulted the Australian Sports Commission ( ASC ) chairman using an expletive that polite company , even Down Under , blanches at .
He accused Wylie of trying to oust him from the AOC , which Coates has run , critics would say almost as a personal fiefdom , since 1990 .
There was a challenge to his leadership from Olympic hockey gold medallist Danni Roche later that year that focused largely on his A$ 700,000 ( $ 416,920 ) annual consultancy fee , but Coates comfortably saw it off .
He later explained that he saw the challenge as a bid by “ barbarians at the gate ” to get their hands on the A$ 150 million ( $ 89.34 million ) Olympic foundation fund that he passionately believes ensures the independence of the AOC .
He learned the importance of that independence when he was a leading advocate of the AOC ’s decision to send a team to the 1980 Moscow Olympics in the face of opposition from the Australian government , who were backing calls for a boycott .
That history and his strong loyalty to the Olympic movement suggests that Monday ’s AOC statement was less a boycott threat than early recognition of an inevitable postponement .
( $ 1 = 1.6790 Australian dollars )
Writing by Nick Mulvenney in Sydney , editing by Peter Rutherford

UPDATE 1-Bombardier to suspend business jet production in Canada over coronavirus -source .
2020-03-23 23:39:35 +00:00 .
( Adds context , union comment )
By Allison Lampert MONTREAL , March 23 ( Reuters ) - Bombardier will suspend Canadian production of its corporate jets to comply with restrictions imposed by provincial governments aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus , a source familiar with the matter said on Monday .
The Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec , where Bombardier ’s flagship Global 7500 and other model business jets are respectively assembled and completed , have ordered all non - essential workplaces to close as of late Tuesday .
The source said the company was weighing the performance of essential services such as customer service operations .
The Ontario plant does final assembly for the Global 5500 , 6500 and 7500 jets .
Ontario ’s premier announced a two - week shutdown of non - essential businesses starting Tuesday , while Quebec ’s order will last until April 13 .
Bombardier spokeswoman Anna Cristofaro said by email the company was “ currently evaluating what today ’s announcements from the Quebec and Ontario governments mean for our operations . ”
But an internal letter to Bombardier Aviation employees seen by Reuters said the company would be shutting down “ all non - essential operations ” in Quebec and Ontario until April 13 , or further notice , to support the two governments ’ announcements .
Bombardier is set to become a “ pure play ” business jetmaker when it completes the sale of its rail division next year to France ’s Alstom SA .
Earlier on Monday , some of the workers at Bombardier ’s plant in Toronto were sent home after a contractor tested positive for the novel coronavirus called COVID-19 , the union ’s acting plant chair Bill Bell said in an interview .
The worker got sick a week earlier and had stopped working at the plant since , said Bell of Unifor ’s local 112 .
Cristofaro said “ a positive case of COVID-19 has been confirmed relative to a contractor at this site , and the individual had already been in self - isolation since March 16 , following proper Bombardier policy . ”
Bombardier has isolated team members at the facility and “ continues to take all necessary measures to safeguard the health of all its employees , ” Cristofaro said .
The incident , combined with the new government restrictions , illustrate the challenge for manufacturing during the global outbreak which began four months ago and has so far infected more than 351,00 people and killed over 15,330 , according to a Reuters tally .
On Monday , Boeing Co said it would halt production at its Washington state twin - aisle jetliner factory as a temporary measure to help fight the coronavirus outbreak .
( Reporting By Allison Lampert Editing by Denny Thomas , Chris Reese and Tom Brown )

UPDATE 2-Spain's Santander will review 2020 dividend policy due to coronavirus .
2020-03-23 22:27:36 +00:00 .
* Will consolidate any 2020 dividend into final full - year dividend * Executive chairman and CEO will take a 50 % pay cut in 2020
* Bank has created fund of at least 25 million euro to fight coronavirus *
( Adds details on dividend measures and management pay cut )
By Jesús Aguado MADRID , March 23 ( Reuters ) -
Spain ’s Santander said on Monday it would not pay its first interim dividend in November and would review the dividend paid from 2020 earnings , while senior management took a 50 % pay cut as part of the bank ’s measures to help fight the coronavirus outbreak .
The initiative by the euro zone ’s biggest bank in terms of market value could pressure other European banks to follow suit with similar measures as large companies , small and mid - sized businesses and households grapple with the impact of the respiratory disease .
Spain has been in lockdown since March 14 .
Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Sunday he would seek parliamentary approval to extend a two - week state of emergency by 15 days , until April 11 , in an effort to combat the coronavirus .
The number of coronavirus cases in Spain rose to 33,089 on Monday , making Spain the second hardest - hit European country , after Italy .
The country ’s death toll surpassed 2,000 .
“ The scale of the task before us demands a huge collective effort , with governments , central banks and other authorities , the private sector , charities and individuals , working together to limit the spread and provide care for those affected , ” Santander Executive Chairman Ana Botin said in a statement .
While the European Central Bank has promised emergency liquidity and credit lines , European governments are scrambling to put together additional spending packages .
SANTANDER TO REVIEW DIVIDEND POLICY
Although Santander said on Monday it met the capital requirements to maintain its current dividend policy of a 40 % to 50 % payout ratio , the board committed to review the dividend paid from 2020 earnings in order to direct resources to support people and businesses in need .
The bank said its board agreed to consolidate any dividend from 2020 earnings into a single final proposed dividend , to be submitted to the Annual General Meeting for approval in 2021 , once the full impact of the pandemic was known .
Santander usually pays dividends twice a year , its first in November and the second and final full - year dividend the following May.
Against 2019 earnings , Santander paid 0.23 euro per share in dividends .
To support efforts to fight the coronavirus outbreak , the bank said it created a fund of at least 25 million euros ( $ 26.8 million ) financed through a reduction in compensation of senior management , board compensation and voluntary contributions from Santander employees .
The bank said that Botin and Chief Executive Jose Antonio Alvarez had committed to reduce their total compensation ( salary and bonus ) by 50 % for 2020 , and the compensation of non - executive directors would be reduced by 20 % .
As part of wider measures , Santander also said on Monday it would hold its annual shareholders ’ meeting at its Madrid headquarters instead of in the northern port city of Santander , without guests attending in person .
Santander has also closed slightly less than half of its branches in Spain because of reduced visits from clients as the coronavirus spreads , a source with knowledge of the matter said on Friday , while its more than 20,000 staffers in Spain are already working from home .
$ 1 = 0.9327 euros
Reporting by Jesús Aguado ;
Editing by Jessica Jones , Leslie Adler and Peter Cooney

Boeing suspending Washington state production due to coronavirus risks .
2020-03-23 18:45:00 +00:00 .
SEATTLE ( Reuters ) - Boeing Co ( BA.N ) said on Monday it would halt production at its Washington state twin - aisle jetliner factory as a temporary measure to help fight the coronavirus outbreak .
FILE PHOTO :
The company logo for Boeing is displayed on a screen on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) in New York , U.S. , March 11 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Brendan McDermid / File Photo
Confirming an earlier Reuters report , and after a similar move by European rival Airbus SE ( AIR.PA ) , Boeing said a temporary operations shutdown at its facilities across Seattle ’s Puget Sound region will last 14 days beginning March 25 .
It will include a deep clean of its buildings and equipment .
[ L1N2BC1JX ]
The fast - spreading coronavirus has disrupted life , hammered the economy and virtually wiped out air travel demand .
Boeing ’s airline customers have deferred taking new aircraft and making pre - delivery downpayments , compounding a crisis over the year - old grounding of Boeing ’s previously fast - selling 737 MAX jet after fatal crashes .
Boeing halted 737 production in January .
Boeing separately has asked for at least $ 60 billion in U.S. government loan guarantees for itself and American aerospace manufacturers to help the embattled industry withstand a virus - related cash drain .
Boeing , which employs some 70,000 people across the Puget Sound area , has more than a dozen confirmed coronavirus cases among employees .
One worker died from the coronavirus , according to a friend ’s Facebook tribute on Monday .
Boeing Chief Executive Officer Dave Calhoun said in a statement accompanying the announcement that the planemaker was working closely with public health officials , customers , suppliers and others who would be affected by the temporary suspension .
“ We regret the difficulty this will cause them , as well as our employees , but it ’s vital to maintain health and safety for all those who support our products and services , and to assist in the national effort to combat the spread of COVID-19 , ” Calhoun said .
Boeing already instructed many employees to work from home .
It said factory and other workers unable to work remotely would receive paid leave during the planned suspension period .
For now , the stoppage does not apply to Boeing ’s 787 Dreamliner plant in South Carolina .
Calhoun told employees in an email seen by Reuters that “ the fight to save lives by halting the spread of COVID-19 around the world is demanding actions that few of us could have imagined even a few weeks ago . ”
“ It has to be the top priority for all of us - individually and collectively - to do what ’s possible to help stop the pandemic now , ” he said .
Reporting by Eric M. Johnson in Seattle ;
Editing by David Gregorio and Tom Brown

PG&E to plead guilty to 84 involuntary manslaughter counts over 2018 wildfire .
2020-03-23 15:20:56 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Pacific Gas
Electric has agreed to plead guilty to 84 involuntary manslaughter counts in connection with the 2018 Camp Fire , the most destructive wildfire in California ’s history .
FILE PHOTO : PGE works on power lines to repair damage caused by the Camp Fire in Paradise , California , U.S. November 21 , 2018 .
REUTERS / Elijah Nouvelage / File Photo
The plea by California ’s largest utility was announced on Monday by its parent PGE Corp , three days after the utility accepted tighter oversight and pledged billions of dollars to improve safety and help wildfire victims , under an agreement California Governor Gavin Newsom .
That agreement ended a major roadblock to PGE ’s planned emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy , as Newsom devotes his attention to the coronavirus outbreak in his state .
Pacific Gas
Electric said it entered its plea through a March 17 agreement with the Butte County District Attorney ’s office , which would end all state criminal proceedings against the San Francisco - based company related to the Camp Fire .
The fire began on Nov. 8 , 2018 , and destroyed much of the town of Paradise , which had about 26,000 people , and nearby Concow .
More than 18,000 buildings were destroyed .
PGE also pleaded guilty to one count of unlawfully starting a fire .
“ We can not replace all that the fire destroyed , but our hope is that this plea agreement , along with our rebuilding efforts , will help the community move forward from this tragic incident , ” PGE Chief Executive Bill Johnson said in a statement .
Under the agreement , PGE would pay a maximum $ 3.5 million fine plus $ 500,000 in costs , and up to $ 15 million to provide water to residents after the fire destroyed the utility ’s Miocene Canal .
Some fire victims would receive payouts under PGE ’s proposed bankruptcy reorganization plan , which was submitted on March 16 , PGE said .
The settlement requires approval by the Butte County Superior Court , and by the federal bankruptcy court overseeing PGE ’s Chapter 11 case .
PGE and its utility unit filed for bankruptcy in January 2019 , citing more than $ 30 billion in potential liabilities from California wildfires in 2017 and 2018 linked to its equipment .
The company previously reached $ 25.5 billion of settlements related to wildfires in 2015 , 2017 and 2018 , including $ 13.5 billion for victims and $ 12 billion for insurers , cities , counties and other public entities .
Under the settlement with Newsom , PGE agreed to pay no shareholder dividends for three years , saving about $ 4 billion , and pursue a “ rate - neutral ” $ 7.5 billion financing package that would benefit ratepayers .
PGE also agreed to put itself up for sale if it can not emerge from Chapter 11 by a state - imposed June 30 deadline , before the next wildfire season begins .
Reporting by Shariq Khan in Bengaluru and Jonathan Stempel in New York ;
Editing by Vinay Dwivedi and Marguerita Choy

Automakers halt production in India due to coronavirus .
2020-03-23 14:40:33 +00:00 .
MUMBAI ( Reuters ) - India ’s biggest automaker Maruti Suzuki India and peers including Mahindra Mahindra , Mercedes - Benz , Fiat Chrysler Automobiles ( FCA ) as well as Hyundai Motor Co said they will halt car production in the country due to the coronavirus outbreak .
A sales executive speaks on his mobile phone as he stands in between Maruti Suzuki cars inside a showroom in New Delhi April 9 , 2013 .
REUTERS / Adnan Abidi /
Files
The move comes after automakers shut plants last week in Europe , the United States , Canada and Mexico as the global death toll from coronavirus exceeded 13,000 .
Sport - utility vehicle maker Mahindra
Mahindra said it aims to start making ventilators for coronavirus patients at its manufacturing plants , mirroring similar efforts by other automakers including Ferrari and Fiat .
At least 341 people have so far contracted the disease in India and five deaths have been reported in country , prompting the government to suspend most train and metro services nationwide and order the closure of shops in several states until March 31 .
Maruti , which builds one in every two cars sold in India , said it would immediately shut production and office operations at its facilities in the northern state of Haryana .
“ The duration of this shutdown will depend upon government policy , ” Maruti , which is majority owned by Japan ’s Suzuki Motor Corp , said in a statement on Sunday .
The western state of Maharashtra , which has recorded the highest number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the country , is home to one of India ’s biggest auto hubs - Pune , where several car makers are set to halt production indefinitely or until March 31 .
Mahindra has stopped manufacturing at one of its plants in Maharashtra and will suspend work at two others from Monday , it said in a statement .
Anand Mahindra , group company chairman , said on Twitter that the company will immediately begin work on how it can make ventilators at its plants .
“ A lockdown over the next few weeks will help flatten the curve and moderate the peak pressure on medical care , ” Mahindra said , adding that it will offer its holiday resorts as temporary care facilities and help the government in building such centres .
Daimler AG ’s Mercedes - Benz and Fiat as well as bike maker Bajaj Auto all said they will halt production at their Pune plants until March 31 .
Fiat said it will not cut jobs and will continue to pay salaries of all its employees .
India ’s top - selling bike maker Hero MotoCorp Ltd said on Sunday it has stopped manufacturing at all its plants in India , Bangladesh and Colombia .
Indian carmaker Tata Motors Ltd said on Friday it was rapidly scaling down activity at its car factory in Maharashtra and was preparing to close it if concerns about coronavirus deepen .
Meanwhile Volkswagen AG ’s India unit said on Sunday it has stopped production at its facility in Pune for three weeks as part of an ongoing business transition and is ensuring the safety of its employees .
South Korea ’s Hyundai Motor said on Monday it was suspending production at its Chennai plant from Monday through the end of March in response to the state government ’s lockdown measures as the virus spreads .
Reporting by Aditi Shah and Abhirup Roy;Additional reporting by Heekyong Yang ,
Editing by Sam Holmes and Susan Fenton

Column: Oil slump overwhelms hedge-fund short covering .
2020-03-23 13:30:46 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Hedge funds continued to sell petroleum in the middle of March but at a diminishing rate as some managers began to buy back previous short positions – anticipating a rebound that never came .
Dust blows around a crude oil pump jack and flare burning excess gas at a drill pad in the Permian Basin in Loving County , Texas , U.S. November 25 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Angus Mordant Hedge funds and other money managers sold the equivalent of 44 million barrels in the six most important futures and options contracts in the week to March 17 .
( Chartbook : reut.rs/2wuTjAj )
Total fund sales have reached 681 million barrels since Jan. 7 , with a net position of just 289 million barrels remaining , according to exchange and regulatory data .
Net positions are the lowest for more than four years .
They fell below this level for a few short periods between 2014 and 2016 in the last oil price slump .
But amid the continued sell - off there were signs at least some portfolio managers thought the price slump was nearing an end .
Last week , funds continued to sell Brent ( -75 million barrels ) and U.S. gasoline ( -13 million ) but were buyers of NYMEX and ICE WTI ( +20 million ) , U.S. diesel ( +16 million ) and European gasoil ( +12 million ) .
In each case , the majority of the adjustments came from a reduction in previous bearish short positions , with few , if any , new bullish long ones added .
This was the second time the hedge fund community has tried to identify a turning point .
The first was in mid - to - late February , when benchmark Brent prices briefly rose from $ 55 to $ 60 per barrel before slumping again .
Like the first attempt , this one proved premature , unleashing a third wave of selling and pushing prices down even further towards $ 20 .
The logic is sound .
From a positioning perspective , the balance of risks has shifted to the upside , with prices having fallen so far already and many hedge fund managers still running short .
But positioning risks have been swamped by the continued deterioration in the global economy , which has no precedent since the Second World War , slashing fuel consumption by 10 million barrels per day or more .
Until the global economic crisis is brought under control , and some normalisation of business and transportation activity starts to take place , oil prices will continue to slump .
John Kemp is a Reuters market analyst .
The views expressed are his own .
Related columns : - Global economy hit by severest shock since 1930s ( Reuters , March 20 ) - Coronavirus confronts decision - makers with a terrible trade off ( Reuters , March 18 ) - Hedge funds turn ultra - bearish as volume war compounds pandemic ( Reuters , March 16 ) - Hedge funds paused oil sales , before coronavirus prompted second wave of selling ( Reuters , March 2 )
Editing by Nick Tattersall

UPDATE 2-CNH Industrial replaces CEO, sticks with spin-off plan .
2020-03-23 12:22:30 +00:00 .
* Hubertus Muhlhauser leaves with immediate effect * Chairman Suzanne Heywood becomes interim CEO * CFO also leaving to take up a new position ( Adds source , detail , context )
By Giulio Piovaccari MILAN , March 23 ( Reuters ) -
The chief executive of CNH Industrial is leaving with immediate effect , the industrial vehicle maker said on Monday , less than two months after a profit warning .
CNH said Chairman Suzanne Heywood would replace Hubertus Muhlhauser as CEO until a permanent replacement was found .
A source close to the matter said Heywood ’s appointment was a board initiative and that Muhlhauser ’s resignation followed .
“ The board reached its unanimous decision and accepted the resignation of Hubertus Muhlhauser as chief executive officer , who has left the group with immediate effect , ” CNH said in a statement , adding it would stick with the group ’s plan to split in two .
Muhlhauser , who took office as CEO in September 2018 , could not be reached for comment .
Exor , the investment firm of Italy ’s influential Agnelli family and CNH ’s biggest shareholder , said in a separate statement it welcomed Heywood ’s appointment to provide the business with “ the decisive leadership required especially in the current global context ” .
Heywood is also Exor ’s managing director .
“ Extraordinary times require clear and effective leadership of the kind we know Suzanne Heywood will bring to her new role , ” said Exor Chairman and CEO John Elkann , who is also the chairman of automaker Fiat Chrysler .
CNH , an Italian - American maker of farm machinery , Iveco commercial vehicles , construction equipment and powertrains , slashed its 2020 earnings forecast in February , blaming weakening demand from farmers in the Americas .
The company on Friday said it was suspending most of its European assembly operations for two weeks due to the coronavirus outbreak , citing supply chain constraints .
On Monday , CNH said it had also appointed Oddone Incisa as its new chief financial officer to succeed Max Chiara , who will leave the company to take up a new position .
The source said that change was not linked to the CEO replacement .
The company said a permanent CEO would be named after a thorough search process .
CNH ’s board confirmed its strong support for a plan - devised when Muhlhauser was CEO - to split the group in two and list its Iveco truck , bus and FPT engine divisions separately in an effort to boost asset values and streamline its businesses .
( Reporting by Giulio Piovaccari , editing by Kirsten Donovan and Mark Potter )

Indians breathe easier as lockdowns to halt coronavirus clear smog .
2020-03-23 09:58:12 +00:00 .
MUMBAI ( Reuters ) - Indians breathed easier on Monday as lockdowns ordered to combat the spread of the coronavirus in India ’s megacities kept cars off the road and closed factories , improving air quality and letting people see blue skies instead of heavy gray smog .
FILE PHOTO :
A view of deserted roads along Bandra during a 14 - hour long curfew to limit the spreading of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in the country , in Mumbai , India , March 22 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Francis Mascarenhas / File Photo Last year , India accounted for around half of the world ’s 50 most polluted cities , according to Swiss firm IQAir , with emissions caused partly by industry , vehicle exhaust and coal - fired plants .
Now , however , New Delhi and at least 75 Indian districts are under lockdown to stop the virus , which has infected at least 341 people in India and killed seven .
Many Indians also heeded Prime Minister Narendra Modi ’s call to observe voluntary confinement on Sunday , leaving roads that are usually crammed with cars , rickshaws , motor - bikes and buses eerily empty .
In New Delhi , the world ’s most polluted capital city , the Air Quality Index sank to roughly 93 , a level considered moderate , on Monday afternoon .
New Delhi ’s air is regularly considered unhealthy , and AQI averaged around 161 in March 2019 , according to IQAir .
In financial capital Mumbai , levels were at 90 , versus an average of around 153 in March 2019 .
Air quality is deemed to be good when the number drops below 50 .
“ ( The drop ) is mainly because of a huge reduction in vehicular traffic , ” said Dr. Gufran Beig , project director at the government environment monitoring agency SAFAR .
As a result , skyscrapers usually shrouded in smog were visible and some residents reported spotting more stars than usual .
“ We went for a walk and my wife found that breathing was easier , ” said retired sea captain Francis Braganza , 74 , whose wife suffers from chronic breathing problems he attributed to pollution .
India ’s toxic air claimed 1.24 million lives in 2017 , according to a study published in Lancet Planetary Health .
Some research also links air pollution to an increased risk of respiratory virus infections - which include COVID-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus .
“ Once we get over this crisis , it will be as bad as before , ” Braganza said while walking on a quiet Mumbai road .
Reporting by Alexandra Ulmer ;
Editing by Simon Cameron - Moore

New Delhi and scores of Indian districts under lockdown to contain coronavirus spread .
2020-03-23 06:18:11 +00:00 .
MUMBAI/ NEW DELHI ( Reuters ) -
New Delhi will be under lockdown until March 31 , the Indian capital ’s government announced on Sunday , seeking to keep citizens indoors to prevent the spread of coronavirus and giving police powers to punish violators .
General view shows a deserted national highway during a 14 - hour long curfew to limit the spreading of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in the country , in New Delhi , India , March 22 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Anushree Fadnavis
The city ’s borders with neighboring states will be sealed and public transport will be suspended , said the city ’s chief minister , Arvind Kejriwal .
“ We have learnt this from the world that the less you venture outside , the less you come in contact with the world that much we can save ourselves , ” Kejriwal told reporters .
“ We are saying this repeatedly that you can save yourself from coronavirus , ” he said .
The order to shut down the capital came hours after hundreds of millions of Indians heeded Prime Minister Narendra Modi ’s appeal for people to self - isolate for a day to contain the spread of the disease .
India has registered 341 cases of coronavirus , with seven deaths , the federal government said in statements on Sunday .
Experts have said the number of cases mirror rates during the early stages of the outbreak in other countries , which then went on to see very rapid growth .
While Sunday ’s curfew was voluntary and not an outright ban on movement , it was followed by series of announcements by states to continue the lockdown till the end of March .
At least 75 districts across the country where cases of coronavirus have been detected have been put under stringent lockdown .
“ State governments will issue orders allowing only essential services to operate in about 75 districts with confirmed COVID-19 cases or casualties , ” said a home ministry official in New Delhi .
Indian Railways , which carries more than 25 million commuters a day , canceled all passenger train services until March 31 .
Medical experts say a lack of testing facilities could be hiding the true extent of cases in India , which has a population of more than 1.3 billion people .
Testing has been expanded to private laboratories and will now include asymptomatic people who have had contact with confirmed cases .
FUMIGATION
Firefighters in western India fumigated areas around closed markets , public squares and urban slum districts .
“ The curfew period gave us a chance to scale down each and every activity across India , ” said a senior aide to Modi , adding that a more rigid approach could trigger protests or unrest .
“ A breakdown of law and order will be the worst thing to happen at this point , ” he said on condition of anonymity .
Factories , large industrial parks and banks have declared shutdowns or found ways to minimize contact in offices .
Confirmed cases in South Asia , including India , have increased to 1,145 with 12 deaths reported .
In Sri Lanka , police arrested over 110 people for violating a curfew .
The country has registered over 80 cases .
Afghanistan , with 34 cases , reported its first death from the coronavirus on Sunday .
Additional reporting by India , Nepal , Sri Lanka , Afghanistan , Pakistan , Bangladesh bureaux , ;
Writing by Rupam Jain ;
Editing by Frances Kerry

SE Asia Stocks-Tumble as virus-led lockdowns fan recession fears; Singapore falls most .
2020-03-23 04:16:05 +00:00 .
* Singapore sees worst day since Oct 2008 * Singapore enforces ban on short - term visitors *
Thailand custom - cleared exports for Feb set to show decline By Arpit Nayak March 23 ( Reuters ) - Southeast Asian stock markets fell on Monday and Singapore marked its worst day in over 11 years as lockdowns and travel curbs to stem the spread of the coronavirus pandemic stoked fears of a likely recession .
While nations imposed stricter restrictions on movement , central banks in the region have adopted a range of measures to boost liquidity and spur growth in markets but their efforts have paled in comparison to the speed of the virus ' spread and the economic toll .
Meanwhile , following Wall Street 's worst week since 2008 , E - Mini futures for the SP 500 dived 5 % at the open to hit their downlimit .
" Markets are beginning to price in recession scenarios as aggressive fiscal and monetary stimulus misfire , " analysts at ING said in a note .
"
The futures are pointing to ( the ) start of yet another week of market sell - off . "
Singaporean shares plunged 8.4 % to hit their lowest since May 2009 .
The country sealed off its borders from short - term visitors in a bid to conserve resources for citizens returning from other countries , a day after reporting its first deaths from the virus .
Adding to woes , Malaysia 's ongoing travel ban could cause labour shortages for Singapore with daily commuters barred from the city - state .
Malaysian stocks fell as much as 4.7 % , amid a two - week partial lockdown in the country .
Malaysia deployed its army to enforce curbs on travel after the country recorded the region 's highest number of coronavirus cases .
The Philippine index tumbled 5.6 % after seeing its worst week since the 2008 financial crisis last week .
Property developer SM Prime Holdings and lender BDO Unibank eased 10 % and 9 % , respectively .
The energy - heavy Thai bourse lost 7.5 % as oil prices suffered a steep decline .
The trade reliant nation is set to release data for customs - based exports later in the day which will likely take a hit due to the virus .
For Asian Companies click ; SOUTHEAST ASIAN STOCK MARKETS as at 0337 GMT Change on the day Market Current Previous Pct Move close Singapore 2,234.08 2,410.74 -7.33
Bangkok 1,060.66 1,127.24 -5.91 Manila 4,631.06 4,778.76 -3.09 Jakarta 4,047.782 4,194.944 -3.51 Kuala Lumpur 1,270.87 1,303.28 -2.49 Ho Chi Minh 671.1 709.73 -5.44 Change so far in 2020 Market Current End 2019 Pct Move Singapore 2,234.08 3,222.83 -30.68 Bangkok 1,060.66
1,579.84 -32.86 Manila 4,631.06 7,815.26 -40.74 Jakarta 4,047.782 6,299.54 -35.74 Kuala Lumpur 1,270.87 1,588.76 -20.01
Ho Chi Minh 671.1 960.99 -30.17 ( Reporting by Arpit Nayak ;
Editing by Shailesh Kuber )

Automakers halt production in India due to coronavirus .
2020-03-23 03:48:14 +00:00 .
MUMBAI ( Reuters ) - India ’s biggest automaker Maruti Suzuki India ( MRTI.NS ) and peers including Mahindra Mahindra ( MAHM.NS ) , Mercedes - Benz , Fiat Chrysler Automobiles ( FCA ) ( FCHA.MI ) as well as Hyundai Motor Co ( 005380.KS ) said they will halt car production in the country due to the coronavirus outbreak .
FILE PHOTO :
New scooters are pictured at a stock yard during a media tour to the newly inaugurated second assembly line of a Honda Motorcycle Scooter India manufacturing plant in Vithalapur in the western state of Gujarat , India June 29 , 2016 .
REUTERS /
Amit Dave / File Photo
The move comes after automakers shut plants last week in Europe , the United States , Canada and Mexico as the global death toll from coronavirus exceeded 13,000 .
Sport - utility vehicle maker Mahindra
Mahindra said it aims to start making ventilators for coronavirus patients at its manufacturing plants , mirroring similar efforts by other automakers including Ferrari and Fiat .
At least 341 people have so far contracted the disease in India and five deaths have been reported in country , prompting the government to suspend most train and metro services nationwide and order the closure of shops in several states until March 31 .
Maruti , which builds one in every two cars sold in India , said it would immediately shut production and office operations at its facilities in the northern state of Haryana .
“ The duration of this shutdown will depend upon government policy , ” Maruti , which is majority owned by Japan ’s Suzuki Motor Corp ( 7269.T ) , said in a statement on Sunday .
The western state of Maharashtra , which has recorded the highest number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the country , is home to one of India ’s biggest auto hubs - Pune , where several car makers are set to halt production indefinitely or until March 31 .
Mahindra has stopped manufacturing at one of its plants in Maharashtra and will suspend work at two others from Monday , it said in a statement .
Anand Mahindra , group company chairman , said on Twitter that the company will immediately begin work on how it can make ventilators at its plants .
“ A lockdown over the next few weeks will help flatten the curve and moderate the peak pressure on medical care , ” Mahindra said , adding that it will offer its holiday resorts as temporary care facilities and help the government in building such centres .
Daimler AG ’s ( DAIGn .
DE )
Mercedes - Benz and Fiat as well as bike maker Bajaj Auto ( BAJA.NS ) all said they will halt production at their Pune plants until March 31 .
Fiat said it will not cut jobs and will continue to pay salaries of all its employees .
India ’s top - selling bike maker Hero MotoCorp Ltd ( HROM.NS ) said on Sunday it has stopped manufacturing at all its plants in India , Bangladesh and Colombia .
Indian carmaker Tata Motors Ltd ( TAMO.NS ) said on Friday it was rapidly scaling down activity at its car factory in Maharashtra and was preparing to close it if concerns about coronavirus deepen .
Meanwhile Volkswagen AG ’s ( VOWG_p .
DE )
India unit said on Sunday it has stopped production at its facility in Pune for three weeks as part of an ongoing business transition and is ensuring the safety of its employees .
South Korea ’s Hyundai Motor said on Monday it was suspending production at its Chennai plant from Monday through the end of March in response to the state government ’s lockdown measures as the virus spreads .
Reporting by Aditi Shah and Abhirup Roy;Additional reporting by Heekyong Yang ,
Editing by Sam Holmes and Susan Fenton

REFILE-Australia, NZ shares pounded as widespread closures fuel recession fears .
2020-03-23 03:10:03 +00:00 .
( Adds packaging slug ; corrects typographical error in fifth paragraph ; adds press release link in last paragraph )
* Australian shares slump to their lowest since Nov. 2012
* NZ set for worst day ever on lockdown move
By Pranav A K
March 23 ( Reuters ) -
Australian shares slumped more than 8 % on Monday in thin volumes as new government stimulus against a coronavirus - induced slowdown did little to soothe recession fears deepened by strict new measures to contain the outbreak .
New Zealand ’s benchmark index dove more than 10 % and was on course for its worst session ever after the country announced a move to enter lockdown over the next 48 hours .
Australia on Sunday ordered pubs , cinemas , churches and casinos to shut their doors , heightening the economic burden facing companies and tempering optimism around a fresh A$ 66.4 billion ( $ 38.50 billion ) pledged by the government to combat the pandemic .
The SP / ASX 200 index slumped 8.5 % to lows not seen since 2012 , before recovering slightly to trade 6.1 % lower by 0033 GMT .
The benchmark closed 0.7 % higher on Friday .
“ Volumes on our desk are very light .
Several large cash holders are considering substantial purchases but are not sure of timing , even though they see good value in many stocks , ” Doug Symes , a senior client adviser at Novus Capital said .
The country ’s “ Big Four ” banks hit multi - year lows , falling between 10.8 % and 15.7 % .
National Australia Bank touched its lowest level since 1996 .
“ It ( stimulus package ) will make an important difference , but will not offset the economic consequences of the pandemic , ” ANZ analysts wrote in a note to clients .
“ We maintain expectations of a mid-2020 recession .
The risk is that it could be deeper and longer than currently anticipated as shutdowns and border closures push economic growth down another notch , ” the ANZ Research analysts added .
Australian energy stocks dropped to a more than 16 - year low as sweeping worldwide bans on travel crushed demand for fuel .
Santos Ltd slumped nearly 9 % , while top oil and gas producer Woodside Petroleum dropped 6.4 %
Buy - now - pay - later firm Afterpay Ltd crashed 31.4 % , pushing the technology index down 6.2 % to a near two - year low .
In New Zealand , the benchmark SP / NZX 50 index dropped 10.4 % , or 963.74 points , to 8,232.6 .
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Monday the country will move into its highest alert level , with all - non - essential services , schools and offices to be shut over the next 48 hours .
Meanwhile , the central bank said it would start buying up to NZ$30 billion worth of government bonds to help soothe markets .
SkyCity Entertainment plummeted 23 % to its lowest in more two decades after saying it would shut its casino in Adelaide in line with an Australian government order .
( Reporting by A K Pranav in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Devika Syamnath )

Germany's Merkel goes into quarantine after contact with infected doctor .
2020-03-22 19:36:35 +00:00 .
FRANKFURT ( Reuters ) - German chancellor Angela Merkel went into quarantine on Sunday after coming into contact with a coronavirus - infected doctor shortly after announcing more curbs on social interaction to slow the spread of the disease .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel arrives for a media statement on the spread of coronavirus at the Chancellery in Berlin , Germany , March 22 , 2020 .
Michel Kappeler Merkel , 65 , will continue her work from home and will submit to repeated tests over the next few days , her spokesman said in a statement , adding it was too soon for a conclusive test yet .
Merkel had on Friday afternoon received a vaccine shot against pneumococcus , a pneumonia - causing bacteria , from a doctor who later tested positive for coronavirus , according to the statement .
Merkel earlier on Sunday said in a televised press briefing that Germany would ban public meetings of more than two people , amid a raft of further measures .
“ The great aim is to gain time in the fight against the virus , ” she said , citing an agreement between the federal government and regional states .
For at least the next two weeks , people will not be allowed to form groups of three or more in public unless they live together in the same household , or the gathering is work - related , she added .
Restaurants can only serve patrons via takeaway , while hairdressers and beauty , massage and tattoo parlours must close .
Governments in Europe , the epicenter of the global pandemic , have escalated their emergency responses amid a rising death toll .
Italy banned travel within the country after freezing non - essential business activity .
Spain wants to extend until April 11 a state of emergency it imposed this month .
Regional states in Germany had previously taken differing approaches in the fight against the virus .
Bavaria and smaller Saarland had gone furthest , imposing restrictions to keep people inside their homes save for a number of work - related exceptions .
“ We are reducing public life and social interaction further and we are making sure to impose the same rules in principle across Germany , ” Merkel said .
Last year , Merkel suffered several bouts of shaking at public events , sparking speculation about her health .
“ I am aware of the responsibility of my office , ” she told reporters last July after the tremor episodes .
“ I behave appropriately as far as my health is concerned ...
I look after my health . ”
Merkel has said she will not seek a fifth term as chancellor in federal elections due by October 2021 .
She has loomed large on the European stage since 2005 , helping guide the EU through the euro zone crisis and opening Germany ’s doors to migrants fleeing war in the Middle East in 2015 , a move that still divides the bloc and her country .
Reporting by Ludwig Burger ; Additional reporting by Paul Carrel ; Editing by Andrew Heavens and
David Holmes

UPDATE 3-Emirates stopping nearly all passenger flights, slash wages .
2020-03-22 16:11:43 +00:00 .
* Most passenger flights suspended by March 25 * Repatriation flights to 13 countries * Up to 50 % pay cut for most employees
* Tim Clark forgoes basic salary for 3 months ( Adds Emirates comment it will now maintain some services )
By Alexander Cornwell DUBAI , March 22 ( Reuters ) - Emirates , one of the world ’s biggest long - haul airlines , said on Sunday it would stop nearly all passenger flights this week and cut staff wages by as much as half because of the coronavirus impact on travel demand .
The state - owned Dubai carrier had already announced the suspension of nearly 70 % of its network of 159 destinations , asked staff to go on unpaid leave and frozen recruitment as the industry faces one of its biggest ever challenges .
“ As a global network airline , we find ourselves in a situation where we can not viably operate passenger services until countries reopen their borders and travel confidence returns , ” Emirates Chairman Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al - Maktoum said in a statement .
The Dubai based airline , which initially said it was stopping all passenger operations by Wednesday , will maintain some services to 13 countries for repatriation flights at the request of governments .
Flights would continue as long as borders remain open and there is demand , it said .
Cargo flights will also operate .
It operates a fleet of 270 aircraft , mostly Airbus A380 and Boeing 777 passenger jets .
Emirates employees told Reuters they were not surprised most flights were being suspended .
“ There is no other choice , really , ” one said on the condition of anonymity as they were not authorised to speak to media .
International connectivity is crucial for Emirates ’ Gulf hub model , which transformed Dubai six years ago into the world ’s busiest international airport .
It does not operate domestic flights and most of its passengers transit through Dubai .
Emirates Group , a state holding company that includes the airline among its assets , will enforce a temporary 25 % to 50 % reduction in basic salary for the majority of employees .
“ I feel uncertain for the future but at least we still have our jobs and are still getting paid , ” an employee said .
The Group had 100,000 employees , including more than 21,000 cabin crew and 4,000 pilots , at end - March 2019 , the close of its last financial year .
Emirates President Tim Clark , who is due to step down in June , and Gary Chapman , president of the holding group ’s airport and travel services company , will forgo their basic salaries for three months .
“ We want to avoid cutting jobs , ” Sheikh Ahmed said .
In an email to staff , seen by Reuters , he said he was confident the airline he has been chairman of since it was founded in 1985 would survive and asked staff to “ keep their spirits up . ”
“ For now , we have to preserve our resources , while preparing ourselves for the rebound , ” he said .
( Reporting by Alexander Cornwell Editing by David Goodman and Philippa Fletcher )

Argentina lays out key economic road map amid debt talks .
2020-03-21 03:18:46 +00:00 .
BUENOS AIRES ( Reuters ) - Argentina ’s government laid out its most in - depth economic road map on Friday , a key step in debt talks after creditors clamored for more detailed information about the country ’s plans as both sides look to strike a restructuring deal .
Cleaning staff using disinfectants at subway entrances as people line up to enter the Constitucion transfer center , one of the most important in the city , in response to the outbreak of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Buenos Aires , Argentina March 19 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 19 , 2020 REUTERS /
Matias Baglietto Economy Minister Martin Guzman said that under realistic fiscal and growth forecasts Argentina could not service its current debt load of over $ 110 billion in foreign - law bonds and credit facilities from global bodies .
“ I would characterize the debt situation of the country today as unfinanceable , unaffordable and unsustainable , ” Guzman said .
“ If nothing was done , if there was n’t a debt operation , the debt path would be explosive . ”
Argentina President Alberto Fernandez said in a statement later on Friday that his government and the International Monetary Fund had agreed that Argentina would be unable to make payments in foreign currency on its debt for four years .
Guzmman said further tightening was not possible given high levels of poverty in the country .
“ Argentina has already made a massive adjustment of primary fiscal spending .
There is no room in the short - term for continuing this dynamic , no room at all , ” he said .
Guzman laid out frameworks for growth of 1.5%-2 % in the medium - to - long term , and a primary fiscal surplus over the same time frame of 0.8%-1.2 % .
He said the country was aiming for gross foreign reserves of $ 65 billion by 2024 .
The minister said , however , that the coronavirus pandemic could impact Argentina ’s economic analysis , especially in the short - term for 2020 and potentially even 2021 .
“ Today it ’s clear we are living in times of very high uncertainty and that ’s something that has to be taken into account , ” he said .
“ This is something that was true before the coronavirus and it ’s even more true now . ”
Guzman said the government was discussing steps toward a new program with the IMF , which extended a $ 57 billion credit facility to Argentina in 2018 .
The IMF said earlier on Friday that Argentina needed substantial relief from private creditors and that there was “ virtually no scope ” for its servicing bond payments in the medium term .
Reporting by Adam Jourdan ; Writing by Cassandra Garrison and Dave Sherwood ;
Editing by Leslie Adler

Bolt’s former coach calls on IOC to postpone Tokyo Olympics .
2020-03-21 01:21:51 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Usain Bolt ’s long time coach called on Friday for this year ’s Tokyo Olympics to be put off until 2021 as the Covid-19 Coronavirus continues to claim lives around the world .
FILE PHOTO :
World record holder and Olympic Champion Usain Bolt jokes with his coach Glen Mills during warm - ups prior to competing at the Jamaican Athletics National Championship in Kingston , Jamaica June 27 , 2009 .
REUTERS /
Hans Deryk
“ My recommendation would be to postpone the Olympics until next year , ” Jamaican sprint coach Glen Mills told Reuters in a telephone interview .
“ This would be unprecedented , but we are in unprecedented time .
Move everything up one year and then everything will eventually fall back in place .
“ But I do n’t think that the Olympics will take place at the time that is specified ( July and August ) because the outbreak is worldwide and in some countries , it is just starting to accelerate .
“ I ca n’t see the Olympics going ahead ; taking persons from all over the world and bringing them to one central point . ”
The International Olympic Committee ( IOC ) and Tokyo organisers have maintained that the Games should go ahead as scheduled to start on July 24 .
Mills , who coached the now retired Bolt to eight Olympic gold medals and 11 world championship titles , said his current athletes at the Racers Track Club have been unable to train since Wednesday .
This was due to measures taken by the Jamaican Health Ministry , including the closure of training tracks and gyms .
“ Right now the important thing is for them to isolate themselves and follow social distancing , ” Mills said .
“ The athletes have been instructed to do whatever exercises they can do at home
and if they have any open spaces to exercise until the training facilities reopen and then we can re - start proper training . ”
The virus will likely have a huge economic impact for athletes given the anticipated cancellation and postponement of meetings during the outdoor season , Mills added .
Editing by Gene Cherry and Toby Davis

Panama's Copa Airlines cancels all flights as coronavirus crisis spreads .
2020-03-20 23:04:52 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
A Copa Airlines employee , wearing a protective mask , works at the airline counter at Tocumen International Airport after the Panamanian government restricted flights in recent days due to the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Panama City , Panama March 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Erick Marciscano ( Reuters ) - Panama ’s Copa Airlines ( CPA.N ) on Friday said it will suspend all operations from March 22 until April 21 , making it the first Latin American carrier to take such a drastic measure in order to weather the coronavirus crisis .
Air travel in Latin America has become heavily restricted in recent days .
Panama and Colombia announced the suspension of all international travel to their countries on Thursday .
The restrictions in the region have left airlines scrambling to sustain their operations and left many passengers stranded without a viable way to get home .
Colombia ’s main carrier , Avianca Holdings ( AVT_p . CN ) , said on Friday that 5,000 employees , or about a quarter of its workforce , would be taking unpaid leave .
Colombia has canceled all of its international flights and 84 % of its domestic flights within Colombia .
Meanwhile , Brazil , Latin America ’s largest economy , remains the odd country in the region .
It has the least restrictive regulations in place on air travel and its infrastructure minister , Tarcisio Freitas , said on Friday that Brazil is not planning to shut down any airports .
Reporting by Marcelo Rochabrun ; Additional reporting by Elida Moreno ; Editing by Chris Reese and
Leslie Adler

Offshore driller Valaris gears up for possible debt restructuring -sources .
2020-03-20 20:50:52 +00:00 .
NEW YORK , March 20 ( Reuters ) - Offshore oil driller Valaris PLC is exploring debt restructuring options as it grapples with a rig accident and a broader collapse in energy prices , people familiar with the matter said on Friday .
Valaris has tapped debt restructuring attorneys at law firm Kirkland Ellis LLP for advice on ways to rework its roughly $ 6.5 billion debt pile , and is exploring enlisting a turnaround firm that specializes in urgently addressing stressed finances to bolster its roster of advisers , the sources said .
The London - based company had already been working with investment bank Lazard Ltd on options for addressing its debt , in addition to a series of cost - cutting measures already underway .
No formal debt restructuring , such as a bankruptcy filing , is imminent for Valaris , even as the company considers significant steps to rework its finances , the sources added .
It had $ 1.7 billion of liquidity available at the end of 2019 , enough to cover maturing debt to 2024 , the company said on Feb. 20 .
It is not clear how quickly the company will burn through its cash given the shock inflicted on its business this month by the global downturn .
The sources requested anonymity because the matter is confidential .
Valaris declined to comment , while Kirkland Ellis and Lazard did not respond to requests for comment .
Companies servicing oil and gas producers have been pummeled by plunging energy markets triggered by an oil price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia , and concerns over economic activity grinding to a halt because of the global coronavirus outbreak .
Even before the recent downturn , offshore drillers were being slowly suffocated by persistently - low day rates for their services and huge debt piles .
In November , Seadrill said it was talking to its lenders about restructuring $ 7.5 billion of liabilities .
Valaris ’ stock has fallen more than 90 % since the start of the year , while its 8 % bonds due in January 2024 were trading around 14 cents on the dollar , according to Refinitiv Eikon data .
Formed last year by the merging of Ensco and Rowan Companies , Valaris settled a dispute in January with Luminus Management , giving the company ’s largest shareholder a seat on its board after the activist hedge fund pushed for better governance and changes to its capital structure .
Five weeks later , Valaris reported an accident that damaged one of its rigs off the coast of Angola .
As a result , a contract with France ’s Total SA , one of Valaris ’ most lucrative , could be terminated , the company warned in a March 10 regulatory filing .
That could erase up to $ 150 million from one often - used measure of annual earnings that Valaris expected to be as high as $ 240 million , the company said .
( Reporting by David French , Mike Spector and Jessica DiNapoli in New York ;
Editing by Tom Brown )

Fed backstop for muni market may ease some rate pressures .
2020-03-20 19:47:27 +00:00 .
CHICAGO ( Reuters ) -
The battered U.S. municipal bond market could get a limited boost from the Federal Reserve ’s announcement it was expanding its money market support program to include short - term muni debt as collateral , analysts said on Friday .
FILE PHOTO :
Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) in New York , U.S. , March 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lucas Jackson Yields in the $ 3.8 trillion market where states , cities , schools and other issuers sell debt , have climbed dramatically amid a selling frenzy by investors scrambling for cash as coronavirus fears wreak havoc on markets .
Loans will now be available “ to eligible financial institutions secured by certain high - quality assets purchased from single state and other tax - exempt municipal money market mutual funds , ” through the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility the Fed set up on Wednesday , the U.S. central bank said in a statement .
The move is limited to highly rated muni debt with maturities that do not exceed 12 months .
Even so , the iShares National Muni Bond ETF ( MUB ) , which tracks overall municipal bond sector , jumped almost 4 % after the news and was last up about 0.9 % .
Greg Saulnier , a Municipal Market Data ( MMD ) analyst , said while help was desperately needed , there was no immediate change in the tone of the overall market , where yields on MMD ’s top - rated , tax - exempt benchmark scale were poised on Friday to add to Thursday ’s 50 basis - point hike .
“ I do n’t know how much impact that ’s going to have on stabilizing the rest of the market , ” he said , noting the Fed was only targeting short - term debt .
But Matt Fabian , the head of market and credit research at Municipal Market Analytics , welcomed the move as a way to help stabilize municipal bond liquidity .
“ It will greatly reduce the pressure on the muni money markets to cover investor redemptions while not tanking the value of the underlying municipal bonds they hold , specifically short maturity bonds and notes , ” he said in an email .
He added that most of the market ’s liquidity pressure “ is exactly in this part of the curve , because investors are converting many of their financial assets to cash without regard to what those assets are , ” he added .
Investors pulled $ 4.28 billion from tax - exempt money market funds in the week ended March 18 , according to Lipper .
An astounding $ 12.2 billion fled muni bond funds .
Dan Solender , director of the municipal bond group at Lord Abbett , said short - term borrowing costs could fall .
“ Right now many of these money market securities are stuck on dealer / bank balance sheets and they keep moving rates higher to try to entice buyers , ” he said in an email .
“ So it will help to clear up some balance sheet space , which could be used to buy longer municipal bonds , but it remains uncertain how much of an impact that would have . ”
MMD ’s one - year , short - term spot rate has risen from 0.70 % on March 10 to 2.02 % at Thursday ’s close .
Reporting by Karen Pierog ; Editing by Alden Bentley and
Tom Brown

World's top debt funds lose billions in coronavirus rout .
2020-03-20 18:16:35 +00:00 .
NEW YORK / LONDON ( Reuters ) - Coronavirus has hit the world ’s biggest debt funds , which have lost billions of dollars in value , Morningstar data shows , while one smaller fund shed half its value in a little over two weeks .
Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) in New York , U.S. , March 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lucas Jackson Markets have lost trillions of dollars in value over that time at a record - breaking pace , laying bare structural weaknesses after a decade of central bank easy money and fuelling fears of mass fund redemptions .
After the collapse of Lehman Brothers during the financial crisis in 2008 , spreads on European investment grade debt took 45 days to double .
In March , that doubling took just 19 days , analysts at Bank of America said in a note .
Despite central bank pledges of massive economic and monetary stimulus , there is little sign of confidence returning , particularly in corporate credit .
Investment grade funds saw outflows of $ 35.6 billion in the week to Wednesday , with taxable bond funds shedding $ 55.9 billion , the largest weekly outflow on record according to Lipper data dating back to 1992 , as markets continued to be roiled by the coronavirus pandemic .
It is “ an unbelievably big outflow from investment grade .
Investment grade is catching up to high yield in terms of percentage outflows .
To me , until this week , investment grade also looked rich relative to other risk assets , ” said John McClain , portfolio manager at Diamond Hill Capital Management .
The director of IMF Monetary and Capital Markets warned this month that any sudden decision by investors to sell shares in credit - focused asset managers and exchange traded funds ( ETFs)could pressure them to sell riskier assets quickly .
Worst hit among the world ’s biggest funds was the actively managed $ 81.4 billion PIMCO GIS Income fund , down 7.7 % in the month to March 17 , data from Morningstar showed .
The world ’s biggest fund , the $ 269 billion Vanguard Total Bond Market Index fund , meanwhile , was down 2.4 % .
For an interactive version of the graphic , click here tmsnrt.rs/3dd67f9 .
Certain other funds were even harder hit , particularly those with share classes which were hedged or based in currencies other than the dollar .
Neuberger Berman ’s Emerging Market Debt Blend Fund hedged and in pounds was down 54.8 % in the month , while Pimco ’s GIS Capital Securities Fund , hedged and in Brazilian Reals , which invests primarily in the subordinated debt of banks and other financials , was down 29.3 % .
A spokeswoman for Neuberger said : “ The performance reporting of this particular share class was distorted due to a February 2020 client redemption .
The overall fund strategy has a year - to - date return of -11.86 % as of March 19 , 2020 . ”
For an interactive version of the graphic , click here tmsnrt.rs/396DRHM .
Reporting by Simon Jessop ;
Editing by Alexander Smith , Rachel Armstrong and Louise Heavens

UPDATE 2-Thailand delivers special rate cut as coronavirus hits economy .
2020-03-20 17:30:23 +00:00 .
* Rate cut by 25 bps to record low 0.75 % at special meeting
* Impact of coronavirus more severe than expected * Policy committee to meet on March 25 as scheduled
* Rate to be cut further this year - economist ( Adds detail , comments , virus cases )
By Orathai Sriring BANGKOK , March 20 ( Reuters ) - Thailand ’s central bank cut its key interest rate by 25 basis points to a record low of 0.75 % on Friday as the spread of the coronavirus exerted further pressure on the flagging economy .
The Bank of Thailand ’s monetary policy committee ( MPC ) , in a special meeting , voted unanimously to lower the one - day repurchase rate in a back - to - back cut this year .
The rate cut was the fourth since August .
Friday ’s special meeting was the first time since 2003 .
“ This will mitigate the impact on the economy and also reinforce fiscal measures already implemented and forthcoming , ” the BOT said in a statement .
That will also reduce the burden of interest on borrowers affected by the coronavirus outbreak and alleviate strains on liquidity in the financial markets , it said .
“ The committee viewed that the COVID-19 outbreak in the period ahead would be more severe than previously expected and the situation would take some time before returning to normal .
This would severely affect the Thai economy , ” it added .
The pandemic has roiled global financial markets , affecting liquidity and the functioning of Thai financial markets despite the overall stability of the financial system , it said .
The rate cut suggests the MPC is accepting that the Thai economy is entering a recession along with the global economy , said Amonthep Chawla , an economist at CIMB Thai .
Central banks around the world have slashed interest rates in the past few weeks and provided additional stimulus in some cases to try to help alleviate the threat to the global economy from the coronavirus pandemic .
Thailand on Friday reported 50 new coronavirus infections , taking its tally to 322 .
One person has died .
“ We now see two further policy rate cuts of 25 bps each in Q2 and Q3 , taking the rate to a record - low 0.25 % at end-2020 , ” said Tim Leelahaphan , an economist at Standard Chartered .
“ Policy space is running out , and alternatives have not been communicated , ” he said .
The MPC will still meet to review policy on March 25 , as scheduled , when it will also offer updated economic forecasts .
It is expected to slash its 2020 growth forecast from 2.8 % .
Some economists predict negative growth for Thailand this year .
Thailand is considered one of the economies most vulnerable to the virus in Southeast Asia due to its heavy reliance on Chinese tourists and China trade .
Foreign receipts accounted for about 11 % of Thailand ’s gross domestic product ( GDP ) last year .
Tourist numbers may fall by 25 % this year as a result of the pandemic , the Tourism Authority of Thailand said .
Southeast Asia ’s second - largest economy expanded just 2.4 % last year , the lowest in five years .
For the full text , click here
Reporting by Orathai Sriring ;
editing by Mark Heinrich

Direct lenders hold onto portfolios as virus fears grow .
2020-03-20 15:46:47 +00:00 .
LONDON , March 20 ( LPC ) - While fears over the coronavirus outbreak grow , direct lenders have limited choice but to hold onto their illiquid portfolios as the exit routes in mid - market lending remain limited .
Unlike the syndicated loan market , which has seen a pick up in secondary trading activity following the outbreak of the virus , loan transfers in direct lending are still in an infancy stage .
Direct lenders tend to hold loans until maturity .
“ Most direct lending deals are on a bilateral basis .
It is a take - and - hold industry and offers a limited opportunity to trade out a position that you are in , ” said Floris Hovingh , partner and head of alternative capital solutions at Deloitte .
“ Selling direct lending loans mid - way in their life would get lot of questions from the potential buyers . ”
A meaningful secondary market was just beginning to develop for the sale and purchase of mid - market direct lending loans , however market volatility triggered by the rapid spread of the virus has made any trade very difficult because of a massive gap between bid and ask spreads .
“ It ’s very hard to sell anything now as it will be very depressed in terms of valuation .
No one would sell at a deep discount , ” said Hovingh , adding direct lenders need to reassess their portfolio to understand which companies they might need to support in difficult times .
OPAQUE MARKET
Since the secondary market is still in its infancy , any talks on loan transfers are all in private .
“ No one would sound out loud about selling their loans , ” a head of a direct lender said .
In addition , the time and efforts on due diligence spent on a secondary trade are similar to a primary deal .
European direct lender Kartesia acquired an outstanding unitranche facility in Spanish dental services provider Vitaldent in 2018 from another lender but only after holding rounds of conversations with majority owner JB Capital and following the improvement in trading performance .
It was a profitable trade for Kartesia , sources said , which existed the position in less than a year when Advent International agreed to buy Vitaldent in June 2019 .
GREATER ACCESS
Despite being hard for direct lenders to trade out of their loan positions , they do have a great amount of access to portfolio companies compared to a number of larger borrowers in the syndicated loan market .
“ Direct lenders often have a majority vote in the loans with good management access , which improves communication and decision making .
They are also senior secured lenders to be the first in line to get the collateral if loans turn sour , ” said Hovingh .
To most direct lenders , collaboration is the key once portfolio companies start to underperform .
“ Identifying the problems and collaborating with the private equity sponsors is the best way to get your money back .
You do n’t want to threaten the sponsors and burn any bridges as they are less likely to support the company , ” said Nicole Downer , managing partner at MV Credit .
Downer added that options to help companies include converting cash interest into accrued interest payments to boost firms ’ liquidity .
“ Giving space to breathe is important in a difficult time , ” said Downer .
“ This approach has proven successful in MV Credit ’s two - decade investment experience and we continue stand by it . ”
(
Editing by Claire Ruckin )

Container shipping firms brace for coronavirus hit to trade .
2020-03-20 11:44:21 +00:00 .
FRANKFURT / COPENHAGEN ( Reuters ) -
Leading container shipping firm A.P. Moller - Maersk scrapped its 2020 earnings forecast on Friday , while rival Hapag - Lloyd warned of slowing growth until at least June , as the coronavirus pandemic takes a heavy toll on global trade .
FILE PHOTO :
A Hapag Lloyd container is loaded at the shipping terminal Altenwerder in the harbour of Hamburg , Germany July 18 , 2016 .
REUTERS /
Fabian Bimmer
The container shipping industry , a bellwether for international trade , has been blown off course by the new virus , which brought parts of China to a standstill before spreading around the world , leading container lines to re - route cargoes and reduce calls to Chinese ports .
Despite lower volume growth , Maersk ( MAERSKb . CO ) still expects to make higher first - quarter earnings than a year ago thanks to savings and steps to offset the higher cost of low - sulfur fuel , it said , sending its battered shares more than 7 % higher by 1045 GMT .
However , the Danish company , which handles one in every five containers shipped by sea worldwide , scrapped its 2020 earnings guidance due to uncertainty over the affects of the pandemic .
Smaller German rival Hapag - Lloyd ( HLAG.DE ) said the outbreak would curb business growth at least until the middle of the year , but that falling fuel costs should help lessen financial impact on the company , which has set aside funds to help cope with the crisis .
Analysts said they were reassured that Maersk was keeping its dividend and share buy - back program - shareholder rewards that have been sacrificed by many other companies .
Hapag shares also rose around 7 % in a rallying stock market after reporting a jump in 2019 profit and proposing a higher dividend .
Hapag CEO Rolf Habben Jansen said the impact of the pandemic was impossible to determine for the time being , but the company was preparing for a blow to trade .
But there could be upside if the crisis is followed by a sudden restocking , he told reporters .
In addition , he said , it was positive that order books for new vessels were historically low and few ships were idle .
While China , where the virus emerged , and other Asian countries have started to recover probably faster than some had expected , other continents are now more affected .
Analysts at Fearnley Securities warned container shipping volumes probably would weaken in the second and third quarter as the Western hemisphere becomes the focus of the outbreak .
Reporting by Vera Eckert in Frankfurt , Stine Jacobsen and Nikolaj Skydsgaard in Copenhagen , editing by Jason Neely and
Mark Potter

After fleeing, China-based expats risk being stranded as global borders close .
2020-03-20 09:46:14 +00:00 .
SHANGHAI / SHENZHEN , China ( Reuters ) - Expatriates living in China , who left in droves when the coronavirus outbreak hit in earnest in late January , face rising hurdles as they rush to return and avoid being stranded overseas .
FILE PHOTO : March 16 , 2020 picture of people wearing face masks walk at Beijing Capital International Airport as the country tries to contain imported cases of coronavirus .
REUTERS /
Carlos Garcia Rawlins/ As countries around the globe go into lockdown even as local cases in China fall sharply , expats face flight cancellations , quarantine policies that differ by city and change by the day and lock - downs in their home countries .
On Friday , Hong Kong ’s Cathay Pacific Airways said it was cutting capacity by 96 percent in April and May.
Ivana Hauserova , based in Shanghai , left in early February .
“ We were afraid for our daughter , what would happen if one of us was sent to quarantine , ” she said from the Czech Republic .
“ Europe was safe at that time . ”
Since then , countries such as Italy , France , Spain and the United States have seen case numbers soar .
Now , Hauserova wants to return to China as she feels people in her home country are not taking the virus seriously enough .
But she has had two flights cancelled and worries she wo n’t be able to go back to Shanghai .
“ Honestly , now I regret that I left Shanghai , ” she said .
QUARANTINE As containing imported cases becomes China ’s priority , quarantining and testing overseas arrivals is increasingly stringent .
Expat chatgroups , once awash with tips on how to leave China , now thrum with tips on how to get back .
Last week Beijing said all people flying into the capital would be quarantined at government - designated facilities for 14 days at the traveller ’s cost , but Shanghai is only selectively quarantining arrivals from high - risk countries .
“ We ’re just really exhausted trying to predict the policy , because it changes every day , ” said Naiwen Ting , a U.S. citizen who left with her family on Jan 20 for a three week holiday in Australia that has turned into a two - month sojourn .
“ You ’re travelling , without it ending , with a suitcase , ” said Ting , who wants to return to her fashion business in Shanghai .
Increasingly scarce flights are in some cases becoming prohibitively expensive .
This week , economy class flights from Australia to Shanghai cost between 9,500 yuan ( $ 1,343 ) and 10,000 yuan , more than double the usual roughly 4,000 yuan .
“ BUSINESS IS PICKING UP ”
Waiting times on arrival have soared as China tries to catalog travel histories to help stem imported cases .
American Joanie Murta arrived in Hong Kong on Saturday and said it took over eight hours of queueing to get through checks while crossing into the mainland at the Shenzhen Bay border checkpoint , where there was no soap or water in the bathrooms .
More than 245,000 people have been infected by the virus across the world and over 10,000 have died .
Some expats are trying to slip through the closing doors by re - routing to places not on China ’s high - risk list and staying there for 14 days to avoid quarantine .
One Belgian expat who declined to be named said he plans to return to Shanghai on Saturday , having stayed in Taiwan for two weeks to try and side - step quarantine policy in the city after staying in France .
“ Now business is picking up , they are opening their stores again ...
it ’s a good moment for me to come back , ” he said .
Reporting by Engen Tham in Shanghai and David Kirton in Shenzhen ; Additional reporting by Josh Horwitz and Shanghai Newsroom , ; Editing by Tony Munroe ,
William Maclean

Remote work during coronavirus outbreak puts millions more on Microsoft Teams, Slack .
2020-03-20 07:30:05 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Microsoft Corp ’s Teams chat and conferencing app gained more than 12 million daily users in one week , a 37.5 % jump as more people worked from home during the coronavirus outbreak , the company said on Thursday .
FILE PHOTO :
The Microsoft logo is pictured ahead of the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona , Spain February 24 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Sergio Perez / File Photo Teams had 44 million users as of March 18 , Microsoft said , more than double the 20 million daily active users that the software maker reported in November .
Teams users grew from 32 million to 44 million in the period between March 11 and March 18 alone , as many more U.S. companies asked employees to work from home , Microsoft said .
There were no comparable recent numbers for the major rival to Teams , collaboration app Slack Technologies Inc , which said in October that it had 12 million daily active users .
Slack did not update that figure during its earnings announcement on March 12 , but said four of its five largest deals in the most recent quarter were won against Microsoft Teams .
On Thursday , Slack said it added 7,000 new paid customers from Feb. 1 to March 18 , a roughly 40 % increase over each of its previous two fiscal quarters , when it had added about 5,000 new paid customers per quarter .
Microsoft also rolled out several features designed to help with telemedicine and working from home , such as a bookings application for Teams to help hospitals manage virtual appointments .
“ As organizations around the world are changing the way they work in response to the ( coronavirus ) situation , we ’re going to learn a tremendous amount , ” Satya Nadella , Microsoft ’s chief executive , said in a virtual news conference .
Microsoft charges fees to businesses for its full versions of Teams , but there is a free version that can be used by consumers .
Microsoft said Thursday that doctors at St. Luke ’s University Health Network in Pennsylvania , who had already been using the Teams app , will start tapping it for videoconferencing with patients , including those vulnerable to the novel coronavirus , to protect patients and the hospital .
Slack earlier this week said it was making the service free for many organizations working to respond to or mitigate the coronavirus and was speeding up the set - up time for new customers .
Microsoft also said it was working on several new features using artificial intelligence that could make working from home easier for Teams users .
One feature can automatically replace the background during a video chat , for example cropping out a messy home bedroom and replacing it with a picture of a tidy commercial office .
Another feature can filter out background sounds during a conference call , such as the crinkling of a plastic potato chip bag .
Reporting by Stephen Nellis in San Francisco ; Editing by Leslie Adler , David Gregorio and Daniel
Wallis

Coronavirus will not deter athletes, says hockey champion Dwyer .
2020-03-20 07:05:52 +00:00 .
MELBOURNE ( Reuters ) -
The coronavirus pandemic has disrupted Olympic qualifying and put the whole Games in doubt but most athletes would be prepared to make big compromises to compete at Tokyo , Australia ’s field hockey gold medalist Jamie Dwyer has told Reuters .
The outbreak has infected over 242,000 people and killed nearly 10,000 , bringing global sport to a virtual standstill and prompting calls for the July 24 - Aug. 9 Olympics to be canceled or postponed .
Four - times Olympian Dwyer , however , said denying athletes the chance to compete at the Games was a decision that should not be taken lightly .
“ The Olympics are n’t until the end of July , so there ’s still a long time to go before we get to cancelling or making plan B , ” the 41 - year - old Queenslander said in an interview .
“ It ’s every four years .
It ’s not like we get this shot every year or two . ”
A member of the Athletes ’ Commission of the Australian Olympic Committee , Dwyer says he has not heard concerns about the coronavirus from any aspiring Olympians Down Under .
Most would gladly sign up for Tokyo , he added , even if spectators were banned or some nations were blocked from participating due to the coronavirus .
“ If I had a choice between playing at the Olympics with no crowd or not going at all , I ’d take no crowds any day , ” said Dwyer , who won men ’s hockey gold at the 2004 Athens Olympics and bronze medals at Beijing in 2008 and London four years later .
He also competed at the 2016 Games in Rio .
“ I know in Australia , the majority would take that option , too .
“ I ’m 100 % sure , whether you ’re a hockey player a swimmer or whatever , you ’d take that opportunity to go .
“ How big are the compromises ?
If one country ca n’t come , or even 10 countries ca n’t come , it ’s a shame
but it ’s not the end of the world .
“ If 50 % ca n’t come , well , yeah , you ’ve probably got a bit of a problem . ”
The immediate problem facing organizers is qualifying , with athletes struggling to train , travel or compete .
Tokyo is set to host some 11,000 athletes and almost 60 % have already earned their spot .
The remainder will clinch their places through modified qualifiers or previous performances based on ranking .
“ Athletes do tend to roll with the punches , but I think qualifiers are the biggest issue — how are they going to qualify over the next three months ? ” said Dwyer .
“ All of these events are getting shut down .
“ The lack of competition is quite difficult and a distraction
but it ’s the same for every country at the moment . ”
In his AOC capacity , Dwyer said he would support any athlete who decided to skip the Games for health concerns but would encourage them not to rush into such a decision .
“ If they were that scared and did n’t want to go , that ’s up to the athlete .
But you do n’t want to make that ( decision ) now , ” he said .
“ You want to make that decision a couple of days before the team heads off to the Olympics if you decide you ’re not going to go . ”
Running a hockey equipment company under his “ JDH ” brand , Dwyer is seeing first - hand how the coronavirus is affecting the sports business , with major competitions postponed or scrapped as part of containment efforts .
Cancelling the Olympics would mean another economic hit for an industry already suffering .
“ What about the thousands of jobs , the billions of dollars spent ? ”
he asked .
“ I know retailers all round the world are really hurting and the small businesses , like myself .
“ It ’s pretty tough
I guess when there ’s no sport . ”
Editing by Peter Rutherford

Faced with a shortage of face masks, some doctors make their own .
2020-03-20 03:00:14 +00:00 .
RENTON , Washington ( Reuters ) - Doctors in Seattle have been reduced to making their own face masks out of sheets of plastic , after a global shortage of medical protective gear has hit Washington state , an epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic in the United States .
FILE PHOTO :
Protective masks at the Microbiology Research Facility , where researchers are beginning a trial to see whether malaria treatment hydroxychloroquine can prevent or reduce the severity of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis , Minnesota , U.S. March 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Craig Lassig
Ahead of an anticipated shortage of medical supplies , hospital staff met in a conference room south of Seattle to make homemade masks for the doctors , nurses and other healthcare professionals on the frontline of tackling the coronavirus outbreak .
“ We ’re days away from running out of the equipment we need , ” said Melissa Tizon , Associate Vice President of Providence St. Joseph Health , which runs 51 hospitals across five western states .
“ We ’re expecting more shipments later on but until then we ’ve got to improvise . ”
With coronavirus cases surging past 13,000 in the United State , health care workers are dealing with not only a shortage of masks but also surgical gowns and protective eye gear .
President Donald Trump , speaking about medical gear at a White House briefing on Thursday , said “ millions of masks ” were in production , but did not give details .
“ We have helped out , and there are right now millions of masks being made .
But this is really for the local governments , governors and people within the state , depending on the way they divided it up .
And they ’ll do that , and they ’re doing a very good job of it . ”
When asked by a reporter at the briefing why the increased production of masks was not reaching hospitals , Trump said the medical system was “ obsolete ” and the production system “ was n’t meant for this ” emergency .
“ Nobody knew there ’d be a pandemic or an epidemic of this proportion , ” Trump said .
“ Nobody has ever seen anything like this before . ”
Vice President Mike Pence said at the same briefing , “ We ’ve vastly increased the supply of medical masks , and we ’re going to continue to put a priority on making sure that we ’re calling on industry at every level . ”
Meanwhile , many hospitals in other states have issued emergency calls for private companies to donate face masks and other items that can be used as medical protective gear .
The Illinois Health and Hospital Association on Thursday , made that plea to help the state ’s 200 hospitals , asking for donations of masks from construction companies , dentists , veterinarians and any other group that might have the masks , called N95s .
“ Hospitals all over the state are in jeopardy of potentially running out of critically needed protective medical supplies , ” said the associations president and chief executive officer A.J. Wilhelmi .
Reporting by Deborah Bloom in Renton , Washington .
Additional reporting and writing by Rich McKay in Atlanta ; editing by Bill Tarrant and Raju Gopalakrishnan

Tesla U.S. vehicle factory to suspend production due to coronavirus .
2020-03-19 22:26:16 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Tesla Inc ( TSLA.O ) will suspend production at its California vehicle factory beginning on March 24 to comply with local orders aimed at curbing the spread of coronavirus , the company said on Thursday .
The company said its New York solar roof tile factory will also temporarily suspend production , while operations at its Nevada battery plant will continue .
“ Despite taking all known health precautions , continued operations in certain locations has caused challenges for our employees , their families and our suppliers , ” the company said in a statement .
Tesla ’s shares fell nearly 9.4 % in after - hours trading following the announcement .
The decision to suspend production at the Fremont , California , plant comes as Tesla ramps up production of its Model Y sport utility vehicle at the factory , which Chief Executive Elon Musk has said will see higher demand than all of Tesla ’s other models combined .
The automaker also said it believed it had enough liquidity to successfully navigate the extended period of uncertainty , with some $ 6.3 billion ( 5.4 billion pounds ) in cash at the end of the third quarter , ahead of a recent $ 2.3 billion capital raise .
Tesla ’s decision to suspend production came after the company met with Fremont city officials .
The view of Tesla Inc 's U.S. vehicle factory which is open for business , despite an order by the Alameda county 's sheriff 's office to comply with a three - week lockdown in the San Francisco Bay Area , in order to rein in the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID ) , in Fremont , California , U.S. , March 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Shannon Stapleton The city and officials from the surrounding Alameda County did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Thursday .
Alameda County is one of six counties covered by an order from regional officials to “ shelter in place , ” which limits activity , travel and business functions to only the most essential , and advises people to stay home except for the most crucial reasons .
The county sheriff ’s office said on Tuesday afternoon Tesla was not considered an essential business and can not continue to operate its factory normally .
Tesla said on Thursday it would continue basic operations at the Fremont factory in compliance with the order to support vehicle and energy services and charging infrastructure .
Tesla ’s sole U.S. auto factory employs more than 10,000 workers , with annualised production of slightly more than 415,000 units by the end of December 2019 .
In an email to employees on Thursday , Tesla said operations at the Fremont plant will transition to “ minimum basic operations ” beginning on March 24 .
Employees at the California and New York factories will be provided with paid leave during suspended operations , the email said .
Tesla ’s Giga factory in Nevada , which employs around 7,000 people , produces battery packs for its electric vehicles and stationary storage systems .
The company ’s Buffalo , New York , plant produces the company ’s solar roof tiles as well as some Supercharger and energy storage components .
It has more than 1,500 jobs in the city of Buffalo , the company said last month .
U.S. automakers Ford Motor Co ( F.N ) , General Motors Co ( GM.N ) and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV ( FCHA.MI ) , ( FCAU.N ) on Wednesday said they were shuttering their U.S. plants , as well as factories in Canada and Mexico , to stop the spread of coronavirus .
Reporting by Tina Bellon in New York ; Additional reporting by Nichola Groom in Los Angeles ; Editing by Tom Brown and
Matthew Lewis

Mideast, Africa airlines in crisis as coronavirus stifles demand -IATA .
2020-03-19 21:11:12 +00:00 .
DUBAI / NAIROBI ( Reuters ) - Middle East and African airlines are in crisis with hundreds of thousands of jobs at risk from the coronavirus outbreak , the International Air Transport Association ( IATA ) said on Thursday , calling for state intervention .
Kenya Airways planes are seen parked during a pilots strike organised by Kenya Airline Pilots Association ( KALPA ) at the Jomo Kenyatta International airport near Kenya 's capital Nairobi , April 28 , 2016 .
REUTERS /
Thomas Mukoya
The industry is facing a liquidity crisis and about a million jobs in the regions are at risk , according to the International Air Transport Association ( IATA ) , which urged governments to provide state aid .
The epidemic has cost Middle Eastern airlines $ 7.2 billion in revenue as of March 11 with 16,000 flights cancelled since January , IATA said .
African airlines lost $ 4.4 billion after thousands of flight cancellations .
The coronavirus pandemic has killed nearly 9,000 people and infected almost 220,000 globally .
Many airlines worldwide say they may not survive the crisis , which deepened on Thursday as German flag carrier Lufthansa warned the industry might not stay afloat without state aid if the pandemic lasts a long time .
IATA
Africa Middle East Vice President Muhammad Ali Albakri warned that even the most drastic cost cuts were being outstripped by plummeting revenue .
“ The implications are not like we have seen before .
We are struggling , suffering , and bleeding , ” he told reporters on a conference call .
IATA said the financial crunch was worse than after the Sept. 11 , 2001 al Qaeda attacks on the United States , the SARS epidemic in 2003 or the 2008 global financial crisis .
About 1 million aviation - related jobs are directly at risk across the Middle East and African countries , including the United Arab Emirates , Saudi Arabia , Morocco , South Africa , Nigeria and Kenya .
Most Middle East airlines are state - owned and few were profitable even before the current crisis .
Most African carriers - apart from Ethiopian Airlines - also struggled to make a profit .
“ African carriers who are already struggling ... will require immediate help , ” Albakri told reporters .
He said that on average , Middle Eastern airlines have two months of cash reserves .
IATA is now urging governments to give state aid to their airlines .
The industry body is proposing direct state financial support , loans and loan guarantees and tax relief , while other measures have already been introduced .
Saudi Arabia , Morocco and Dubai have suspended a rule requiring airlines to use most of their scheduled services to avoid forfeiting landing slots at airports , he said .
Dubai ’s Emirates , one of the world ’s biggest international airlines , has asked staff to take unpaid leave .
International bookings in the Middle East are expected to fall 40 % in March and April , while domestic bookings are also falling .
Ticket refunds surged 75 % between Feb. 1 and March 11 , he said .
For Africa , international bookings have plunged about 20 % in March and April , with domestic bookings also declining .
Ticket refunds have also jumped by 75 % this year compared to 2019 .
Reporting by Alexander Cornwell in Dubai and Omar Mohammed in Nairobi with additional reporting by Yousef Saba and Dahlia Nehme ; Editing by Jason Neely and
Mark Heinrich

Tokyo Olympics chief attended meeting with official who now has coronavirus .
2020-03-19 19:55:11 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Tokyo 2020 Olympics chief Yoshiro Mori attended a meeting on March 10 that included the deputy head of the Japanese Olympic Committee ( JOC ) who tested positive for the new coronavirus this week , officials said .
FILE PHOTO :
Tokyo 2020 president Yoshiro Mori speaks to the media in Tokyo , Japan , March 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Edgard Garrido Mori , who is 82 and has lung cancer , has not been tested because he has no symptoms of the virus and does not meet testing requirements , an official from Mori ’s office said .
Mori and JOC deputy head Kozo Tashima attended a board meeting regarding the Rugby World Cup .
Tashima tested positive for the virus on Tuesday .
At the meeting , about 60 people were in a room and Mori was seated about 10 meters away from Tashima on the opposite side of the table , according to Jun Kusumoto , a spokesman for the Rugby World Cup organizing committee .
Local health authorities have contacted those believed to be at risk of contracting the virus from Tashima but that does not include Mori , the Tokyo 2020 organizing committee told Reuters .
“ He goes to hospital three times a week for dialysis , so if he develops fever or has other symptoms , a doctor will be able to test for it , ” the official from Mori ’s office said .
Doubts are mounting that the Olympics can proceed as planned given disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic but Tokyo Games and Japanese government officials have said the event will go ahead as scheduled and will not be held behind closed doors .
Hiroshi Iijima , deputy governor of Saitama prefecture , who also attended the meeting decided to self - quarantine and will not return to work until March 23 , Ryoji Hiraiwa , a prefectural official said .
Iijima does not have any coronavirus - related symptoms and tested negative after taking a test on Wednesday , he added .
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters Prime Minister Shinzo Abe met Mori on March 16 , without providing details .
He did not directly address a question about whether Abe will test for the virus .
“ Health centers are taking the necessary measures once people test positive for the coronavirus , including identifying who has been in contact with them , ” Suga said .
Reporting by Ami Miyazaki and Ju - min Park ; Additional reporting by Sakura Murakami ;
Editing by Edwina Gibbs

Joshua-Pulev heavyweight title fight postponed due to coronavirus .
2020-03-19 19:26:38 +00:00 .
SOFIA ( Reuters ) - Briton Anthony Joshua ’s world heavyweight title defence against Bulgarian Kubrat Pulev will be postponed by several months due to the coronavirus outbreak , the IBF ’s mandatory challenger said on Thursday .
Boxing - Anthony Joshua and Kubrat Pulev Press Conference - Cardiff , Britain - September 11 , 2017 Anthony Joshua and Kubrat Pulev pose with promoter Eddie Hearn during the press conference Action Images via Reuters / Andrew Couldridge
The 38 - year - old former European amateur super - heavyweight champion Pulev said the fight would probably take place at the end of the year instead of June 20 at Tottenham Hotspur ’s stadium in London as scheduled .
The 62,000 seater stadium was no longer available after European soccer ’s governing body UEFA postponed the European Championship to 2021 , which means that any rescheduled Premier League fixtures could now run into the summer .
“ It is impossible for the fight to take place on June 20 , although I am ready , ” Pulev , known as “ The Cobra ” said .
“ The match will take place a few months later , perhaps towards the end of the year . ”
The flu - like corona virus that originated in China late last year has killed nearly 10,000 people and infected more than 235,000 globally .
It has forced the cancellation or postponement of numerous sporting and other events .
The 30 - year - old Joshua reclaimed the WBA , WBO and IBF belts back with a unanimous points win over Andy Ruiz Jr in December .
Joshua last fought in London in September , 2018 when he beat Alexander Povetkin at Wembley Stadium .
Joshua was initially due to fight Pulev at Cardiff ’s Principality Stadium in October 2017 but the Bulgarian withdrew after suffering a shoulder injury in sparring .
Pulev , one of Bulgaria ’s most popular sportsmen , challenged for the IBF world heavyweight title in 2014 , losing to Wladimir Klitschko in Hamburg on a fifth - round knockout .
Last year Pulev was embroiled in controversy during a post - fight interview when he grabbed reporter Jennifer Ravalo ’s face and kissed her after knocking out Romania ’s Bogdan Dinu in the seventh round in Costa Mesa , California .
Reporting by Angel Krasimirov ;
Editing by Ken Ferris

Southern European bond yields tumble after ECB unleashes emergency stimulus .
2020-03-19 16:35:28 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Southern Europe ’s borrowing costs tumbled on Thursday after the European Central Bank stepped in with emergency stimulus measures to calm markets in the face of the coronavirus outbreak .
FILE PHOTO : 20 Euro banknotes are seen in a picture illustration , August 1 , 2016 .
REUTERS /
Regis Duvignau / Illustration The ECB launched a 750 - billion - euro emergency bond purchase scheme to try to stop a pandemic - induced financial rout from shredding the euro zone ’s economy and raising new concerns about the currency bloc ’s viability .
The new purchases bring this year ’s planned purchases to 1.1 trillion euros .
The new purchases alone are worth 6 % of the euro area ’s GDP .
Italy , whose borrowing costs have spiked in recent days , saw its two - year yield slump as much as 100 basis points at one point .
It was last down 66 bps on the day at 0.79 % IT2YT = RR , set for its biggest one - day fall since mid-2018 .
Ten - year Italian bonds yields were down 45 bps to 1.85 % IT10YT = RR , and set for their biggest daily drop since 2011 .
The risk premium on Italian bonds - the gap over safer German 10 - year Bund yields - tightened almost 100 bps from Wednesday ’s close to around 169 bps before widening back to 200 bps .
It was last heading for its biggest daily decline since June 2018 .
“ It ’s a larger bazooka than they may have needed if last Thursday had n’t panned out so bad , ” said Peter Chatwell , head of rates strategy at Mizuho .
Southern European bonds took a hit after ECB President Christine Lagarde said last week it was not the ECB ’s job to “ close ” spreads .
A series of clarifications followed but did not calm the markets .
On Wednesday , Italian yields surged , with 10 - year yields rising above 3 % .
Worries emerged over whether Italy ’s debt can be sustained , since the government , already heavily indebted , will need to spend large sums to deal with coronavirus .
ECB purchases will also for the first time include debt from Greece , which had been shut out because of its junk ratings .
Now , around 12 billion euros in Greek government debt will be eligible for the purchases , according to Greece ’s finance minister .
Greek 10 - year yields , which had shot up nearly 300 bps over the last two weeks , fell by nearly 190 bps to 2.06 % , set for their best day since July 2015 .
GR10YT = RR
The risk premium over German government bonds fell 176 bps to 220 bps , down from over one - year highs near 400 bps on Wednesday .
Spanish and Portuguese 10 - year bond yields slid over 30 bps each .
The premium they pay above German bonds also fell the most since 2018 and Spain ’s fell back below 100 bps .
DE10ES10 = RR DE10PT10 = RR ( Graphic : ECB to the rescue : bond spreads tighter , here )
Germany ’s 10 - year bond yield , reversed early falls and was last trading 4 bps higher on the day at -0.20 % DE10YT = RR .
It touched a two - month high at -0.14 % .
That came as an official familiar with the plan said Germany intends to declare an exception to the debt brake enshrined in the constitution during a meeting on Monday to finance fiscal stimulus measures in the fight against coronavirus .
“ The news that the German government plans to seek approval for unlimited borrowing would be consistent with higher yields even under normal circumstances , ” said Chris Scicluna , head of economic research at Daiwa Capital Markets .
“ But there is a lot of market dysfunction right now and forced selling of more illiquid bonds , peculiarities . ”
Meanwhile , German manufacturers recorded the biggest drop in business expectations in the 70 - year history of industrial surveys .
Reporting by Yoruk Bahceli and Dhara Ranasinghe ;
editing by Larry King and Timothy Heritage

Dollar strengthens, boosted by worries over coronavirus impact .
2020-03-19 15:57:12 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
The U.S. dollar rose against a basket of currencies for a third day on Thursday , as worries about the economic fallout from the coronavirus boosted dollar demand despite recent steps by world central banks aimed at alleviating market stress .
FILE PHOTO :
A U.S. Dollar note is seen in this June 22 , 2017 illustration photo .
REUTERS / Thomas White / Illustration / File Photo
The dollar index = USD , which measures the greenback ’s strength against a basket of six other major currencies , rose about 1.0 % to 101.76 , its highest since January 2017 .
The index is up about 3 % for the week .
“ The dollar ’s strength is , in effect , a powerful short - covering rally , ” said Marc Chandler , chief market strategist at Bannockburn Global Forex .
“ It was used to fund a great part of the global circuit of capital .
The circuit of capital is in reverse now , and the funding currency is being bought back , ” Chandler said .
The dollar 's rally has crushed several currencies to multi - year lows .
The euro EUR= was 1.31 % lower at $ 1.077 , its weakest since April 2017 , as traders rushed to dump euro positions despite a fresh round of stimulus from the European Central Bank .
Though the European Central Bank announced a 750 billion euro ( 704 billion pounds ) asset - purchase programme in response to the coronavirus outbreak , currency traders were not impressed .
“ While the ECB ’s announcement has helped the bond market , it has done little for the euro , ” said Chandler .
The ECB ’s purchase scheme , announced after an emergency meeting late on Wednesday , came less than a week after policymakers launched fresh stimulus measures .
The fall in the euro mirrored a sudden widening in FX implied borrowing costs for the U.S. dollar , indicating that investors were rushing to secure their short - dated funding .
“ There are still fears about refinancing of European debt in U.S. dollars , ” said Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of FX and commodity research .
“ The swap facilities should normally give access to euro funding .
But I think this is not calming down the market .
There ’s a general assumption that there are a lot of U.S. funding needs , not just in Europe but also around the world as a whole . ”
Though global central banks have pumped in billions of dollars in emergency liquidity injections in recent days and strengthened swap lines with some global central banks , dollar funding pressures remained exacerbated across the board .
Investors are selling what they can to keep their money in dollars due to the unprecedented amount of uncertainty caused by the coronavirus pandemic , which threatens to paralyse the global economy .
The U.S. Federal Reserve opened the taps for central banks in 9 new countries to access dollars in hopes of preventing the coronavirus outbreak from causing a global economic rout .
The dollar pared gains just before the Fed announcement .
FILE PHOTO : U.S. Dollar and Euro notes are seen in this June 22 , 2017 illustration photo .
REUTERS / Thomas White / Illustration / File Photo
The British pound rallied 1.11 % after the Bank of England cut interest rates to 0.1 % and ramped up its bond - buying program .
( GRAPHIC : Global currencies vs. dollar - here )
Reporting by Saqib Iqbal Ahmed ; Additional reporting by Saikat Chatterjee in London ;
Editing by Bernadette Baum

Pound down again after nosediving to lowest since 1985 .
2020-03-19 14:55:35 +00:00 .
* Graphic : World FX rates in 2020 tmsnrt.rs/2egbfVh
* Graphic : Trade - weighted sterling since Brexit vote tmsnrt.rs/2hwV9Hv
By Iain Withers LONDON , March 19 ( Reuters ) -
The British pound lost further ground versus the U.S. dollar and euro overnight into Thursday , as the coronavirus pandemic sends the currency reeling to its lowest levels in more than three decades against the greenback .
The pound was last down 0.9 % , changing hands just above $ 1.15 .
Sterling had edged to a low of $ 1.1450 in New York trading on Wednesday and has plummeted more than 12 % against the strengthening dollar over eight brutal days of trading .
It has not been this weak since 1985 , when the Plaza Accord was signed by the world ’s richest nations to weaken the dollar and drag the U.S. economy out of recession .
Against the euro on Thursday , the pound touched a fresh 11 - year low of 95 pence per euro , before later recovering some ground .
It was last down 0.2 % against the single currency .
Expected volatility gauges for sterling against the dollar leapt to their highest level since before the 2016 Brexit vote on Thursday as jitters remained .
Markets have been roiled by growing fears over the impact of the coronavirus pandemic .
Britain tightened restrictions further on Thursday by ordering schools to shut down after another rise in coronavirus cases .
Sterling has been one of several currencies to tank as investors rush to put their money in U.S. dollars , the world ’s most liquid currency and seen as a safe haven in times of crisis .
Morten Lund , senior FX strategist at Nordea , said he believed the pound had further to fall and could hit $ 1.10 as well as parity against the euro .
Concerns over Britain ’s current account deficit and uncertainty over the country ’s trading relations after Brexit have exacerbated the pound ’s declines , he said .
“ I ’ve been very negative on sterling throughout all this and I do n’t think this general market sell - off is over .
“ There are not many out there that want sterling as a reserve currency , and at the moment everyone wants to be long safe assets including dollars . ”
Several dollar auctions have been held by central banks around the world including the Bank of England this week as part of coordinated action to try to ease strains in money markets .
The Bank of England ’s new governor Andrew Bailey said on Wednesday it was open to more emergency measures .
Analysts at ING said the sharp falls in sterling meant it was behaving more like an emerging market currency , adding that it was among several currencies squashed by the “ armour - plated steamroller ” of the U.S. dollar .
( Reporting by Iain Withers ;
Editing by Hugh Lawson )

UPDATE 2-Battered rouble hovers above 80 vs dollar, c.bank says sells FX .
2020-03-19 14:27:14 +00:00 .
( Updates prices , adds Nordea , VTB comments )
By Alexander Marrow
MOSCOW , March 19 ( Reuters ) -
The Russian rouble on Thursday recovered from a four - year low against the dollar , before paring gains to hover above 80 versus the greenback in volatile trading , amid oil price swings and uncertainty over the coronavirus outbreak .
The double hit from the slump in oil prices and a fast - developing global coronavirus crisis sell - off has made the rouble one of the worst - performing currencies against the dollar this year here losing around 25 % of its value since late 2019 .
The dollar - rouble pair reached its upper limit for trading on the Moscow Exchange on Wednesday as the Russian currency dived more than 7 % , artificially limiting losses for the rouble .
By 1356 GMT on Thursday , the rouble was 0.3 % stronger against the dollar at 80.62 , having swung between 79.10 and 81.97 - its lowest since January 2016 .
It gained 1.5 % to trade at 87.05 versus the euro .
Brent crude oil , a global benchmark for Russia ’s main export , was up 3 % at $ 25.6 a barrel , after sliding to its lowest since May 2003 on Wednesday .
Market analysts are focused on the central bank ’s board meeting on Friday , at which it is expected to keep its key rate unchanged at 6.00 % , according to analysts polled by Reuters .
The central bank has sought to support the rouble through foreign currency purchases , its first such intervention in five years , and repo auctions to inject liquidity into the banking sector .
“ The Bank of Russia has developed a sales mechanism , designed to strengthen the stabilising effect of the budget rule at low oil prices , thus facilitating economic and financial stability , ” said the central bank .
Daily forex sales of between $ 50 million and $ 70 million will be topped up by additional sales by the finance ministry to fund its purchase of the central bank ’s stake in the country ’s top lender , Sberbank .
“ Additional currency sales , initiated by the central bank , lower the risk of a key rate hike at tomorrow ’s meeting , which was beginning to look very likely , given the currency market situation yesterday , ” said Nord Bank analysts .
According to the terms of the deal , the volume of foreign currency sales on the open market may be topped up by another up to $ 800 million a month , said analysts at VT Capital .
Russian stock indexes were higher .
Shares in oil giants Rosneft and Lukoil were both up more than 7 % , tracking the rise in oil prices .
The dollar - denominated RTS index was up 3.2 % at 858.4 points .
The rouble - based MOEX Russian index was 4 % higher at 2,197.5 points .
For Russian equities guide see
For Russian treasury bonds see ( Reporting by Alexander Marrow , additional reporting by Gabrielle Tétrault - Farber and Elena Fabrichnaya ;
Editing by Amy Caren Daniel , Kirsten Donovan )

life insurers impose waiting periods to skirt coronavirus risk .
2020-03-19 14:13:41 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - U.S. life insurers are trying to curb their own risks to coronavirus by imposing waiting periods for applicants who have traveled to regions with widespread outbreaks , industry experts said .
FILE PHOTO :
The AIG logo is seen at its building in New York 's financial district March 19 , 2015 .
REUTERS /
Brendan McDermid Life insurers are worried about insuring U.S. customers who have traveled to countries that the U.S. Centers for Disease Control deems most worrying for contagion risk , including China , Iran , and many European nations .
Lincoln Financial Group ( LNC.N ) , on Monday imposed a 30 - day waiting period before issuing policies to most applicants who have traveled to those regions , a spokesman said .
American International Group Inc ( AIG.N ) said earlier this month it would postpone decisions about life insurance applications from customers with planned or current travel to China and Hong Kong , Italy and South Korea , until they were back in the United States for 30 days , according to a memo seen by Reuters .
AIG is closely monitoring ongoing developments and following recommendations from the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and CDC , a spokesman said .
Life insurers often ask applicants about travel plans to screen whether they could be at risk for serious diseases , such as malaria , or violence .
An “ extreme lack of data ” about the coronavirus , is amplifying those concerns , said Anthony Martin , chief executive officer of Choice Mutual , an online life insurance brokerage in Reno , Nevada .
“ Life insurance companies hate unknowns more than anything else , ” Martin said .
Spread of the virus across the United States could push insurers toward draconian measures , said Tim Luedtke , an actuary and professor at Temple University in Philadelphia .
“ I fully expect that they will stop taking applications , ” Luedtke said .
Credit ratings firms AM Best and Fitch Ratings this week revised their outlooks for U.S. life insurers from stable to negative as the global economic meltdown rattled U.S. life insurers .
An historic stock market slump and interest rate cuts will pressure life insurers ’ earnings , reserves and capital , Fitch said on Tuesday .
[ L1N2B80E8 ] Insurers also face a potential spike in virus - related deaths , Fitch said .
AM Best also said on Wednesday that it would conduct “ stress testing ” of insurers to gauge the impact of coronavirus on their balance sheets .
DELAYED EXAMS
Companies that perform medical exams of life insurance applicants are also changing guidelines for workers ’ safety , spurring more delays .
ExamOne , a Quest Diagnostics Inc unit ( DGX.N ) said it is asking insurance applicants if they have been to “ any restricted travel area ” or taken a cruise , the company said on Tuesday .
Those individuals must delay exams for 14 days .
Jonathan Fritz , 34 , of Roswell , Georgia , said he was scheduled to have a medical exam on Monday for a $ 1.9 million policy from insurer USAA , which he sought after his second child was born .
On Sunday , APPS , a company that conducts the exams , delayed his appointment for 14 days after asking if he had a cough .
Fritz did .
“ USAA has taken steps to reduce the risk of infection for our members , employees and partners ” as the virus begins to have a greater impact , a spokesman said .
An APPS representative did not respond to a request for comment .
Fritz worries about a possible lockdown and more delays .
“ If it goes much further , I ’m really concerned that I do n’t have the coverage in place , ” he said .
Reporting by Suzanne Barlyn in Washington Crossing , Pennsylvania ; Editing by Lincoln Feast and Paul Simao

Boutique shops in central London on the brink as coronavirus kills trade .
2020-03-19 11:54:26 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Horlis Ramirez packed shoes with silk bags into boxes in his empty store in London ’s West End shopping district , voicing fears that coronavirus could deal a fatal blow to his business .
Horles Ramirez , Manager of Bowen , poses outside his store in Piccadilly , as the number of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) cases grow around the world , in London , Britain March 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Dylan Martinez
“ This week I have n’t had a single customer walking through that door , ” Ramirez , the manager of Bowen Shoes , a boutique footwear retailer near Piccadilly , told Reuters .
The streets outside , usually bustling with shoppers and tourists , were virtually empty .
Small shops in London ’s upmarket West End say the slowdown in business caused by the coronavirus outbreak is already pushing them to the brink - and that is before a possible total lockdown in London that the government says might have to happen , as in some other major European cities .
The New West End company , a trade group representing 600 retailers and business in London ’s main shopping district , said that visitor numbers were already down 50 % , with the decline growing daily , putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk .
In a traditional gentleman ’s outfitters on Jermyn Street , an area world - famous for its bespoke shirts , assistants busied themselves refolding items on glass counters in front of traditional wooden shelves of brightly - colored neck ties , socks , braces and handkerchiefs .
“ If it continues ... it would have quite a big impact on the store .
Already stores are closing in the town , so I ’m sure we ’d follow suit , ” said Nichols Ramiz - Fugler , retail director at the gentleman ’s outfitters , New and Lingwood .
“ LOOK AFTER YOURSELF AND EACH OTHER ”
A number of shops in the area have already shut , with signs posted in their windows blaming coronavirus and their owners saying they hoped the closure would be temporary .
“ We look forward to welcoming you back to our stores soon .
Until then , please look after yourself and each other , ” said a sign on luxury shoe shop Stuart Weitzman .
Small bespoke retailers are not the only ones suffering .
Global brand Burberry , said it expected an 80 % fall in sales in the last two weeks of March due to shop closures .
The slowdown was initially gradual , said Barry Klein , the managing director of Old Bond Street Luxury Men ’s Grooming , speaking in front of dozens of shaving brushes and combs .
“ Suddenly toward the end of last week ... everything has just more or less overnight gone very much to a standstill , ” he said .
The shops could benefit from some measures in a huge government package of loan guarantees , tax cuts , grants and other help , announced by the finance minister Rishi Sunak on Tuesday , but it was unclear whether that would be enough to help them survive the coming weeks .
“ ( Sunak ) has said he will do whatever is necessary to support business and he has shown that he can respond to the changing need of retailers , ” said Helen Dickinson , Chief Executive of the British Retail Consortium .
“ While these are the right decisions today , the government may have to take further steps as the full effects of the situation unfold . ”
At Bowen Shoes , manager Ramirez said there was a chance his shop would not make it : “ We are struggling big time .
I do n’t know if , how long we can continue with this nightmare , which is the coronavirus . ”
writing by Sarah Young ;
editing by Michael Holden and Gareth Jones

Olympics: Ticket holders anxiously await word on Games .
2020-03-19 04:11:32 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Holders of coveted tickets for the Tokyo Olympics are anxiously awaiting word on whether the Games will go ahead as planned , with a media report that briefs might not be refundable in case of a cancellation stirring fears they may be left out of pocket .
Tickets have been snapped up in Japan , with over three million sold during the first domestic lottery last May.
Hot demand for later sales also left many potential buyers disappointed .
Organizers have repeatedly said the July 24 to Aug. 9 Games will go ahead as scheduled but with the rapid spread of the coronavirus bringing the sports world to a virtual standstill fears are growing the Olympics may be canceled or postponed .
On Wednesday , the Asahi Shimbun newspaper reported that tickets might not be refundable if the Olympics were to be canceled , citing Olympic organizers and contractual details connected to the tickets .
Should holding the Olympics be prevented due to a number of “ force majeure ” incidents ranging from disasters to war and “ states of emergency connected to public health , ” organizers were not to be held responsible , the Asahi added .
The report prompted a flood of comments on social media , making it one of the top trending Twitter topics in Japan .
“ What - no refunds if it ’s canceled ?
Are you kidding me ? ” wrote commenter may_lulu .
Another lamented : “ I ’ll just bid goodbye to that 100,000 yen ( $ 933.97 ) . ”
The Olympic rings are pictured in front of the International Olympic Committee ( IOC ) in Lausanne , Switzerland , March 17 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Denis Balibouse Tokyo 2020 organizers said in a statement they would monitor the situation but that neither they nor the International Olympic Committee were thinking of cancelling the Games and were making every preparation to ensure they open on time on July 24 .
“ The terms and conditions do not state that ‘ tickets can not be refunded ’ , so the article is not accurate , ” they added .
Many ticket holders appeared resigned .
“ I ’ve almost given up on the Olympics , ” said Toshikazu Moriwaki , a 66 - year - old retired banker who paid roughly 110,000 yen for four tickets but said he believed he would get a refund .
“ I really want to watch the game but above all , I want to have the Olympics in Tokyo , even delayed .
No cancellation please . ”
Liz Shek - Noble , an Australian resident of Tokyo , has tickets to diving and Paralympic fencing .
“ I am not optimistic about the likelihood of getting a refund in the event that the Olympics and Paralympics are canceled , ” she said .
“ In the event that they are postponed , I hope that those who have tickets are given the choice of attending their events on a new date or being partially or fully refunded . ”
FILE PHOTO :
The ticket designs for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics are seen displayed for the media for a photo opportunity in Tokyo , Japan , January 15 , 2020 , in this photo taken by Kyodo .
Mandatory credit Kyodo / via REUTERS
And some continued to hope .
“ First , I want to know if the Games are on or not before worrying about a refund , ” said a Korean woman living in Japan who holds two tickets to see golf .
“ I ’m really looking forward to seeing the events that we luckily got tickets for . ”
Additional reporting by Ju - min Park and Ami Miyazaki , writing by Elaine Lies ;
Editing by Peter Rutherford

Olympics ticket holders anxiously await word on Games .
2020-03-19 03:32:00 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Holders of coveted tickets for the Tokyo Olympics are anxiously awaiting word on whether the Games will go ahead as planned , with a media report that briefs might not be refundable in case of a cancellation stirring fears they may be left out of pocket .
A man wearing a protective mask , following an outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , walks in front of an advertising billboard of Tokyo Olympics 2020 , near the Shinjuku station in Tokyo , Japan , March 15 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Stoyan Nenov
Tickets have been snapped up in Japan , with over three million sold during the first domestic lottery last May.
Hot demand for later sales also left many potential buyers disappointed .
Organisers have repeatedly said the July 24 to Aug. 9 Games will go ahead as scheduled but with the rapid spread of the coronavirus bringing the sports world to a virtual standstill fears are growing the Olympics may be cancelled or postponed .
On Wednesday , the Asahi Shimbun newspaper reported that tickets might not be refundable if the Olympics were to be cancelled , citing Olympic organisers and contractual details connected to the tickets .
Should holding the Olympics be prevented due to a number of “ force majeure ” incidents ranging from disasters to war and “ states of emergency connected to public health , ” organisers were not to be held responsible , the Asahi added .
The report prompted a flood of comments on social media , making it one of the top trending Twitter topics in Japan .
“ What - no refunds if it ’s cancelled ?
Are you kidding me ? ” wrote commenter may_lulu .
Another lamented : “ I ’ll just bid goodbye to that 100,000 yen ( $ 933.97 ) . ”
Tokyo 2020 organisers said in a statement they would monitor the situation but that neither they nor the International Olympic Committee were thinking of cancelling the Games and were making every preparation to ensure they open on time on July 24 .
“ The terms and conditions do not state that ‘ tickets can not be refunded ’ , so the article is not accurate , ” they added .
Many ticket holders appeared resigned .
“ I ’ve almost given up on the Olympics , ” said Toshikazu Moriwaki , a 66 - year - old retired banker who paid roughly 110,000 yen for four tickets but said he believed he would get a refund .
“ I really want to watch the game but above all , I want to have the Olympics in Tokyo , even delayed .
No cancellation please . ”
Liz Shek - Noble , an Australian resident of Tokyo , has tickets to diving and Paralympic fencing .
“ I am not optimistic about the likelihood of getting a refund in the event that the Olympics and Paralympics are cancelled , ” she said .
“ In the event that they are postponed , I hope that those who have tickets are given the choice of attending their events on a new date or being partially or fully refunded . ”
And some continued to hope .
“ First , I want to know if the Games are on or not before worrying about a refund , ” said a Korean woman living in Japan who holds two tickets to see golf .
“ I ’m really looking forward to seeing the events that we luckily got tickets for . ”
Additional reporting by Ju - min Park and Ami Miyazaki , writing by Elaine Lies ;
Editing by Peter Rutherford

Drive-thru coronavirus test sites popping up slowly across America .
2020-03-18 23:33:23 +00:00 .
DANBURY , Conn. ( Reuters ) - Drive - thru coronavirus testing sites are starting to pop up across the United States but few if any are at the major retail stores that pledged last week to provide parking lot space for them .
FILE PHOTO :
Health care worker tests people at a drive - thru testing station run by the state health department , for people who suspect they have novel coronavirus , in Denver , Colorado , U.S. March 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Jim Urquhart On Wednesday , many Americans with suspected coronavirus infections were heading to drive - thru testing sites at hospitals , with their doctor ’s referral .
They were met by healthcare workers in protective gear , swabbing their noses through an open window .
The goal is to ramp up testing , the lack of which has been a major obstacle to understanding the extent of the pandemic , reduce pressure on emergency rooms and keep patients in cars to avoid spreading the infection .
Leading U.S. retailers , such as Walmart Inc , Target Corp , Walgreens Boots Alliance and CVS Health Corp pledged at a White House news conference last Friday to provide space for the drive - thru sites in their parking lots .
Admiral Brett Giroir of the U.S. Public Health Commission told reporters in Washington on Tuesday drive - thru test centers were “ blossoming all over the country . ”
But he added the initiative had faced some early challenges .
The public health commission was “ really pushing equipment ” to 47 centers in a dozen states , after doing a trial run on Monday with public health staff in protective gear , Giroir said .
About 140 U.S. public health staff would be deployed to the sites along with state health workers , he said .
“ We had a lot of kinks in the system , as you can expect , ” he added .
“ That ’s why we do a test before we go out into the field ...
They ’re going to be adapted to the state and the local situation , but we ’re very confident that these will add testing to the already very robust healthcare system . ”
CVS spokesman TJ Crawford said the pharmacy chain was preparing this week to launch a pilot drive - thru testing site in the parking lot of a Shrewsbury , Massachusetts , CVS Pharmacy .
Initial testing would be limited to first responders and local healthcare professionals who are on the frontlines of treating the virus and preventing its spread , he said .
HOSPITAL APPOINTMENTS
For the time being , tests are mainly being conducted at hospitals .
About 80 people had visited the drive - up testing location at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut by late Wednesday morning , according to a police officer at the entrance to the site , which had been set up in a covered parking garage .
The testing site , one of a handful established at hospitals in Connecticut , was accepting people by appointment only .
Some visitors who showed up without an appointment were directed how to make one and come back later , said the officer who did not want to be identified .
“ It has all gone pretty smoothly , ” he said .
A handful of other drive - thru tests at hospitals have started up in New York , Massachusetts , Ohio , Virginia , Colorado and California .
New Jersey on Friday will open its first large - scale drive - up testing site at Bergen County Community College in Paramus with capacity to take in 2,500 specimens a week , state health commissioner Judy Persichilli told a news conference .
Health workers at the sites will send the nasal swabs to labs , including commercial labs run by Quest Diagnostics and LabCorp , for testing , health officials at the news conference said .
Reporting by Nathan Layne in Danbury and Caroline Humer in New York ; Writing by Bill Tarrant ;
editing by Tom Brown

Airline industry turmoil deepens as coronavirus pain spreads .
2020-03-18 23:27:14 +00:00 .
SYDNEY ( Reuters ) - Airline industry turmoil deepened on Thursday as Qantas Airways Ltd ( QAN.AX ) told most of its 30,000 employees to take leave and India prepared a rescue package of up to $ 1.6 billion to aid carriers battered by coronavirus , government sources said .
FILE PHOTO :
Several canceled flights are pictured on a monitor at Seattle - Tacoma International Airport as airlines are reeling from a plunge in bookings and traffic , as the fast - spreading coronavirus pandemic prompts travel restrictions and event cancellations around the world , in SeaTac , Washington , U.S. March 13 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Jason Redmond The U.N. ’s International Civil Aviation Organization called on governments to ensure cargo operations were not disrupted to maintain the availability of critical medications and equipment such as ventilators , masks , and other health and hygiene items that will help reduce the spread of the coronavirus pandemic .
Passenger operations have collapsed at an unprecedented rate as the virus spreads around the world , with Delta Air Lines Inc ( DAL.N ) parking more than 600 jets , cutting corporate pay by as much as 50 % , and scaling back its flying by more than 70 % until demand begins to recover from the coronavirus epidemic hit .
Shares in U.S. airlines fell sharply on Wednesday after Washington proposed a rescue package of $ 50 billion in loans , but no grants as the industry had requested , to help address the financial impact from the deepening coronavirus crisis .
The Trump administration ’s lending proposal would require airlines to maintain a certain amount of service and limit increases in executive compensation until the loans are repaid .
In Australia , Qantas said it would cut all international flights after the Australian government warned against overseas travel and two - thirds of its workforce would need to take paid or unpaid leave .
“ The sad fact is that due to circumstances beyond our control , travel demand has evaporated , ” Qantas Chief Executive Alan Joyce said in a memo to staff seen by Reuters .
“ We have no work for most of our people . ”
Senior Qantas executives and the board will take a 100 % pay cut until at least the end of the financial year ending June 30 , up from 30 % earlier , joining the chairman and CEO in taking no pay , the airline said .
In China , the epicenter of the outbreak , its biggest state - backed carriers reported a 80 % plunge in passengers carried in February and said they would further optimize capacity and step up cost - cutting .
As countries step up border restrictions , more flights are being cut .
Air Canada ( AC.TO ) said it was gradually suspending the majority of its international and U.S. transborder flights by March 31 .
India is poised to join a growing list of countries offering aid to its aviation industry .
The Finance Ministry is considering a proposal worth up to $ 1.6 billion that includes temporary suspension of most taxes levied on the sector , according to two government sources who have direct knowledge of the matter .
New Zealand on Thursday outlined the first tranche of a NZ$600 million ( $ 344 million ) aviation relief package , including financial support for airlines to pay government passenger charges and cover air traffic control fees .
Air New Zealand Ltd ( AIR.NZ ) said it would close its cabin crew base in London earlier than initially planned , leading to the loss of 130 jobs .
Reporting by Jamie Freed ; additional reporting by Aftab Ahmed and Aditi Shah in New Delhi , Tracy Rucinski in Chicago , David Shepardson in Washington , Allison Lampert in Montreal , Praveen Menon in Wellington and Nikhil Kurian Nainan in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Lincoln Feast .

UPDATE 1-Coronavirus-hit Italian cruise ship to dock in south of France .
2020-03-18 20:01:51 +00:00 .
* Cruise ship was destined for Venice before virus outbreak
* Passengers may not disembark in Marseille before being tested
* France in national lockdown with 264 coronavirus deaths
* Liner left Fort Lauderdale , Florida on March 5
* Two infected passengers disembarked in Puerto Rico
* ( Adds green light of Marseille port authority )
By Marc Leras and Geert De Clercq MARSEILLE , France , March 18 ( Reuters ) -
An Italian cruise ship that earlier in its voyage disembarked two passengers who later tested positive for coronavirus has been authorized to dock in Marseille in the south of France , a port authorities spokesman said on Wednesday .
The Costa Luminosa , which left Fort Lauderdale , Florida , on March 5 on a cruise destined for Venice , Italy , made a first stop in Puerto Rico , where the two passengers left the ship .
After being blocked from docking in the Caribbean island of Antigua , the ship unloaded four sick travellers at Tenerife in Spain ’s Canary Islands on March 15 , but police stopped other people from disembarking there , passengers said .
It was not immediately clear whether there were more suspected cases on board .
The ship ’s captain told passengers : “ In regards to the passengers who disembarked in Tenerife , we have no further updates on their condition . ”
The Costa Luminosa is now expected in Marseille , a major Mediterranean port , on Thursday at around 1 p.m. ( 1200 GMT ) , a Marseille port spokesman said , but they would not be permitted to disembark before being tested for coronavirus .
France is in its second day of a virtual lockdown to fight the coronavirus pandemic , with 264 dead so far .
An official at Italy ’s Costa Cruises , a subsidiary of Carnival Corp , was not able to comment immediately .
On a Costa Luminosa Facebook group , passengers shared their distress about being confined to their cabins , the uncertainty about when they can disembark , and the lack of information .
“ Physically we are fine , but mentally we are all exhausted .
Three days into this trip , it all became about COVID-19 ( coronavirus ) , ” Martha Bradbury , a 51 - year - old Canadian passenger , told Reuters .
There were more than 1,420 passengers on the Costa Luminosa , among whom were 230 Americans , 168 Italians , 100 Canadians and other nationalities , according to the cruise operator .
“ All we are thinking about is how we get off this ship , ” Bradbury said .
( Reporting Marc Leras in Marseille , Geert De Clercq in Paris and Angelo Amato in Rome Writing by Geert De Clercq
Editing by Richard Lough and Mark Heinrich )

British schools to close as coronavirus crisis worsens .
2020-03-18 19:48:34 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Britain ordered schools to shut down as the coronavirus crisis worsened on Wednesday , with panic buying forcing supermarkets to ration food and the pound plunging to its lowest levels in more than three decades .
General view of an empty classroom in Staffordshire as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , in Staffordshire , Britain , March 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Carl Recine Boris Johnson ’s government has faced mounting criticism that it was acting too slowly compared with other European nations such as Italy , Spain and France .
Meanwhile , stimulus efforts by policymakers have been overshadowed by market fears about the economic impact of the pandemic .
The pound plunged to its lowest level since March 1985 , barring levels seen during a freak “ flash crash ” in October 2016 .
British stock markets fell for the eighth day in 10 as more companies warned of a severe hit to earnings .
Britain has reported 103 deaths from coronavirus and 2,626 confirmed cases .
Following a host of other nations , the government announced most schools would close after the end of lessons on Friday , although some would be asked to stay open to provide childcare for essential workers such as National Health Service staff .
“ I know the situation has become increasingly challenging , ” Education Secretary Gavin Williamson told parliament as he set out the plan for school closures .
“ The spike of the virus is increasing at a faster pace than anticipated . ”
The shutting of schools will have huge economic and social repercussions for the world ’s fifth - biggest economy .
It will alter the lives of almost 9 million British children and force parents to stay home from work to look after them .
Earlier , Scotland ’s semi - autonomous government announced it would close Scottish schools from Friday and there was no guarantee they would reopen before the long summer break .
The nationalist Edinburgh administration also said it would stop its campaign to hold a referendum on Scottish independence this year .
As part of its long - drawn - out exit from the European Union , Britain is currently in a transition period which is scheduled to end on Dec. 31 .
Asked at a news conference whether he would seek to extend the transition , Johnson said he had no intention of modifying the legislation setting the deadline .
Britain and EU member states are supposed to be working on a new deal encompassing everything from trade to security , but the coronavirus crisis has raised widespread concerns that an already tight time - frame was now unrealistic .
Johnson was also asked whether he planned to introduce stringent lockdown measures similar to those seen in Italy , Spain and France .
He said he would rule nothing out .
Britain ’s biggest supermarkets limited shoppers ’ purchases of food items as a spate of panic buying showed little sign of abating despite repeated attempts by bosses and Johnson to reassure the public .
Aisle after aisle was left empty , with just ice cream and chocolate Easter eggs remaining at many major stores , while huge queues snaked around some supermarkets , Reuters reporters said .
Tesco TSCO.L , Sainsbury ’s SBRY.L and Asda WMT.N all introduced a limit of only three items per customer on every grocery product line so more people would have access to everyday essentials .
Editing by Stephen Addison

Professional riders grounded with season suspended .
2020-03-18 19:41:19 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) -
The coronavirus pandemic has left many professional riders unable to compete or train with the biggest race in the world , the Tour de France , due to start in just over three months .
FILE PHOTO :
Cycling - Tour de France -
The 128 - km Stage 21 from Rambouillet to Paris Champs - Elysees - July 28 , 2019 - Winner Team INEOS rider Egan Bernal of Colombia , wearing the overall leader 's yellow jersey , second - placed Team INEOS rider Geraint Thomas of Britain and third - placed Team Jumbo - Visma rider Steven Kruijswijk of the Netherlands celebrate on the podium .
REUTERS / Gonzalo Fuentes / File Photo All cycling races up to the end of April have been cancelled and riders in France and Spain , where many are based , have been explicitly told they can not train outside .
“ An exception is unthinkable , it is clear that the lockdown applies to all , athletes included , ” French sports minister Roxana Maracineanu said .
The riders are resigned to a bit of down time .
“ For the moment I ’m not training , I ’m taking a one - week break , ” Trek - Segafredo ’s Julien Bernard told Reuters on Wednesday .
“ We do n’t know when racing will resume , at best at the end of May , ” the Frenchman added .
The International Cycling Union ( UCI ) on Wednesday said once the season resumes it will give priority to “ events on the calendar at the date of resumption ” and to the five Monuments ( Milan - Sanremo , Tour of Flanders , Paris - Roubaix , Liege - Bastogne - Liege and Tour of Lombardy ) and three Grands Tours ( Italy , France and Spain ) .
The Monuments , with the exception of October ’s Tour of Lombardy , have been postponed , as well as the Giro d’Italia , which was scheduled from May 9 - 31 .
Tour de France organisers have not yet considered postponing the June 27 - July 19 event , which is due to finish five days before the start of the Tokyo Olympics .
Bernard believes arrangements will be made for athletes in France .
“ For now it ’s only two weeks then authorities will probably take measures for professional athletes , so there ’s no panic , ” he said .
French authorities imposed a two - week lockdown , however , making clear the confinement would likely be extended .
In Italy , where similar measures have been taken , riders can still go out to train , but Under-23 world champion Samuele Battistella said he suffered a barrage of insults on social media for riding his bike in the centre of Bassano del Grappa in the Province of Vincenza .
“ I ca n’t ride with a banner on my back saying ‘ I am working ’ , ” the rider from the Veneto region told La Gazzetta dello Sport .
The Italian federation on Wednesday urged the professional riders to stay at home .
“ Each of us must sacrifice something that belongs to us , we must give up cycling in the open air , on the roads of Italy , ” said president Renato Di Rocco .
Swiss rider Sebastien Reichenbach believes it is wiser to stay at home .
“ I would have a bad conscience if I crashed and were to occupy a hospital bed , ” the Groupama FDJ rider told Swiss newspaper Le Nouvelliste .
“ So I ride on my home trainer and do other physical activities .
To be honest I do n’t think about the current season anymore . ”
That approach has been followed by his team mate and Tour de France podium finisher Thibaut Pinot of France , who has been posting pictures of his fishing catches on social media .
Reporting by Julien Pretot ;
Editing by Ken Ferris and Ed Osmond

FTSE tumbles as more companies flag virus hit .
2020-03-18 18:28:25 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Britain ’s stock markets fell for the eighth day in 10 on Wednesday , as more companies warned of a severe hit to earnings from the coronavirus outbreak even as policymakers pushed for fresh stimulus measures to support global growth .
FILE PHOTO :
Signage is seen outside the entrance of the London Stock Exchange in London , Britain .
Aug 23 , 2018 .
REUTERS / Peter Nicholls / File Photo
The blue - chip FTSE 100 .FTSE fell 4.% , with Carnival Corp ( CCL.N ) and other travel stocks such as Easyjet ( EZJ.L ) and InterContinental Hotels ( IHG.L ) under pressure .
Aerospace engineers Meggitt ( MGGT.L ) , Senior ( SNR.L ) and Rolls - Royce ( RR.L ) dropped between 11 % and 25 % as evidence grew of the severe damage the crisis is doing to global airlines .
U.S. investment bank JPMorgan said it would take several years for the industry to recover in a widely - circulated note that cut its price target on Rolls - Royce by 29 % , citing falling expectations for cash flow .
IT company Micro Focus International ( MCRO.L ) slumped 22.6 % as it scrapped its final dividend as part of its plan to prepare for the fallout from the crisis .
Car retailer Pendragon ( PDG.L ) dropped 12 % as it warned the virus spread in Britain could reduce footfall and worsen results that already show it losing money .
The FTSE 100 is down by around a third from its peaks since the outbreak began to hit home .
The index had recovered some ground on Tuesday as the Trump administration pushed for a $ 1 trillion stimulus package and the UK unveiled a 330 billion - pound lifeline of loan guarantees and other measures .
“ It ’s hard to take anything in ( your ) stride when it feels like we ’re stumbling about trying to figure out what ’s going on , ” said Brian Jacobsen , senior investment strategist at Wells Fargo Asset Management Multi - Asset Solutions .
“ We ’ve seen quite wild swings in the market , and that ’s because of the massive amount of uncertainty as to whether the stimulus will get done and how long will the recovery take . ”
More businesses warned of pain , with Prime Minister Boris Johnson ’s announcement of a virtual shutdown of the country hammering pubs , restaurant and retail companies .
The FTSE index of mid - cap companies .FTMC , meanwhile , was down about 7 % .
Graphic : UK midcaps in capitulation mode here
Rather than growing 5 % as previously forecast , the latest Refinitiv data suggests companies listed on the pan - European STOXX 600 will post a 4.1 % decline in earnings between January and March .
Wagamama owner Restaurant Brands ( RTN.L ) and another pub operator , Mitchells and Butler ( MAB.L ) also outlined severe falls in sales and efforts to shore up their financial situation for later in the year .
British fashion brand Superdry ( SDRY.L ) tumbled 30 % after warning it would miss its 2020 targets , but also said it had a strong capital position and was in talks with lenders about additional flexibility and liquidity .
Among the few gainers were supermarket chains , with WM Morrison Supermarkets ( MRW.L ) and Sainbury ’s ( SBRY.L ) gaining more than 10 % amid panic buying by shoppers .
Reporting by Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru ;
editing by Patrick Graham

British schools to close to slow spread of coronavirus .
2020-03-18 18:28:25 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Britain on Wednesday ordered schools , nurseries and colleges to close for millions of children until further notice after criticism that the government was being too slow to react to the spread of coronavirus .
General view of cupboards and stationery in a classroom Staffordshire as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , in Staffordshire , Britain , March 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Carl Recine
Most schools will close from Friday , although some will be asked to stay open to support the children of essential workers like health care employees , education minister Gavin Williamson told parliament .
“ I know the situation has become increasingly challenging .
I said before that if the science and the advice changed such that keeping schools open would no longer be in the best interests of children and teachers that we would act , ” he said .
“ We are now at that stage .
The spike of the virus is increasing at a faster pace than anticipated . ”
The shutting of so many schools will have huge economic and social repercussions for the world ’s fifth - biggest economy .
It will alter the lives of almost 9 million British children and force parents to stay home from work to look after them .
The decision came after headteachers were increasingly having to turn away pupils anyway because of staff shortages .
The move to shut schools is a reversal of the government ’s recent cautious stance towards tackling the virus .
Britain had previously resisted pressure to follow the lead of Italy , France , and Spain , saying that school closures would not halt the outbreak and would deprive the country of key public sector workers .
EXAMS CANCELLED
All exams will be cancelled , but the government will find a way to ensure students get their qualifications , Williamson said .
The school closure comes after the number of deaths of people who tested positive for coronavirus in England rose to 99 , a 48 % jump from the day before .
Earlier , Scotland announced it would close its schools from Friday and the government in Edinburgh said there was no guarantee they will reopen before the summer .
“ We will of course only keep them closed for as long as we absolutely have to , ” said first minister Nicola Sturgeon .
“ But at this stage , I can not promise that they will reopen before the summer holidays . ”
Williamson said some schools will stay open to support the children of key workers like doctors , the police or delivery drivers , including during the upcoming Easter holidays .
However , this means some children will go to different schools , if their own has been shut down .
Kevin Courtney , joint General Secretary of the National Education Union , welcomed the government ’s announcement .
“ It is better for this to take place in an ordered way than the chaotic pattern of closures that was developing , ” he said .
Editing by Stephen Addison

Trump says he will invoke wartime act to fight 'enemy' coronavirus .
2020-03-18 17:15:19 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - U.S. President Donald Trump moved on Wednesday to accelerate production of desperately needed medical equipment to battle the coronavirus pandemic and said an estimate that U.S. unemployment could conceivably reach 20 percent was a worst case scenario .
U.S. President Donald Trump addresses the daily White House coronavirus response briefing with members of the administation 's coronavirus task force at the White House in Washington , U.S. , March 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Jonathan Ernst Scrambling to address the virus after initially down playing it , Trump said he is invoking the Defense Production Act , putting in place a law that will allow the U.S. government to speed production of masks , respirators , ventilators and other equipment needs .
“ We ’re going to defeat the invisible enemy , ” said Trump , who said the unfolding crisis had basically made him a “ war - time president . ”
Trump said he would invoke another law that would allow U.S. authorities to turn back migrants seeking to cross the southern border of the United States illegally .
The border will not be closed , he said .
Trump said a hospital ship will be sent to hard - hit New York to help people affected by the contagion , and that a second hospital ship will be deployed to the West Coast .
He defended his description of the coronavirus as “ the Chinese virus ” despite concerns among some Americans that he was making an ethnic slur .
“ It ’s not racist , not at all .
It comes from China , ” he said of the illness whose origin has been traced back to Wuhan , China .
Trump , appearing in the White House briefing room for what has now become a daily news conference with his coronavirus task force , said he would sign the Defense Production Act later on Wednesday .
The law , which dates back to the Korean War of the 1950s , grants the president broad authority to “ expedite and expand the supply of resources from the U.S. industrial base to support military , energy , space , and homeland security programs , ” according to a summary on the Federal Emergency Management Agency website .
“ We will be invoking the Defense Production Act just in case we need it , ” said Trump .
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin fanned fears of economic collapse on Wednesday by telling lawmakers on Capitol Hill that 20 percent unemployment was an extreme possibility should the virus have devastating effects on American businesses , many of which are already under duress .
“ That ’s an abosllute total worst case scenario , ” said Trump .
“ We ’re nowhere near it . ”
Vice President Mike Pence , head of the coronavirus task force , urged all Americans to put off elective surgery to allow hospitals to concentrate on the rising influx of patients with the COVID-19 respiratory illness caused by the new virus .
Deborah Birx , a member of the task force , urged young people to adhere to government guidelines , calling for a 15 - day effort to slow the spread of the virus .
Young people are considered key transmitters of the virus , which can be passed along even with mild or no symptoms .
There are now more than 7,000 U.S. cases of the illness and over 100 deaths .
Reporting By Jeff Masonm , Steve Holland , Alexandra Alper , Doina Chiacu , Susan Heavey , Lisa Lambert ;
Editing by Bill Berkrot and Alistair Bell

U.S. immigration courts shut after outcry over coronavirus fears .
2020-03-18 12:55:50 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
A detainee talks with an employee in an exam room in the medial unit during a media tour at Northwest ICE Processing Center , one of 31 dedicated ICE facilities that house immigration detainees , in Tacoma , Washington , U.S. December 16 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Lindsey Wasson / File Photo NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
The U.S. government canceled all deportation hearings for immigrants not in detention after immigration judges and government prosecutors complained busy courts were putting them at risk of COVID-19 infection .
Kathryn Mattingly , a spokeswoman for the Executive Office for Immigration Review , the arm of the U.S. Department of Justice that runs the nation ’s immigration courts , said in statement just after midnight the closures were effective March 18 , 2020 , through April 10 , 2020 .
Cases of immigrants stuck in detention will be heard as scheduled .
Mattingly did not immediately respond to a question about whether hearings for migrants returned to Mexico under a Trump administration program known as the “ Migrant Protection Protocols ” would continue .
The decision came after unions representing immigration judges and prosecutors from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement called for the shutdown .
A dozen current government employees working in the U.S. immigration system told Reuters on Tuesday that they were concerned courts had remained open for so long despite the spreading outbreak .
U.S. President Donald Trump has made an immigration crackdown the centerpiece of his presidency and a major talking point of his 2020 re - election campaign .
A key push has been to reduce the massive backlog of pending deportation cases , with the Justice Department pushing to move migrants through the system faster .
Judge Ashley Tabaddor , head of the immigration judge ’s union , said in an email on Tuesday a judge in Denver has been at home with symptoms that suggest infection but has not been able to take a test to verify .
And private attorney in Atlanta was experiencing COVID-19 symptoms and was under self - quarantine , Tabaddor said .
The attorney was in contact with two judges last week and another the week before , she added .
Separately U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services ( USCIS ) , the agency that processes visa and green card applications , sent a message to all employees late on Tuesday that in - person interviews - including for asylum seekers - and naturalization ceremonies for new citizens would be canceled around the country until at least April 1 .
Courts in Atlanta , Charlotte , North Carolina , Houston , Louisville , Kentucky , Memphis , Tennessee , New York City , Newark , New Jersey and Sacramento and Los Angeles , California would shut down .
The court in Seattle - in an epicenter of the U.S. outbreak - had already been shuttered .
Reporting by Mica Rosenberg in New York ; Additional reporting by Kristina Cooke in Los Angeles and Ted Hesson in Washington D.C. ;
Editing by Steve Orlofsky

UPDATE 2-Coronavirus prompts Malaysia palm plantation closures, world vegoil supply concerns .
2020-03-18 07:20:29 +00:00 .
* Malaysia to shut plantations for 2 weeks , disrupting supplies * No.1 importer India has 25 days ’ stocks , shipments in pipeline ( Recasts with India , China supply situation )
By Mei Mei Chu and Naveen Thukral KUALA LUMPUR / SINGAPORE , March 18 ( Reuters ) - Malaysia ’s palm oil plantations will stop operations for the next two weeks to comply with government orders to contain the spread of the coronavirus , a producer group said on Wednesday , raising concerns over global edible oil supplies .
Malaysia is the world ’s second - largest producer of palm oil , which is used in everything from cosmetics to cookies and accounts for around 65 % of global edible oil exports .
The country has closed its borders and restricted internal movement by shutting schools and businesses from Wednesday until March 31 , after the number of infections in the country climbed to the highest in Southeast Asia .
Palm oil analysts estimate that Malaysia ’s crude palm production will drop by 350,000 - 700,000 tonnes for the month of March due to the harvest pause , potentially cutting March inventories to 1.0 - 1.3 million tonnes .
India , the world ’s top vegetable oil importer , could take a hit if the supply disruption lasts longer , a top broker said .
“ Two weeks is fine as we have about 25 days of stocks at ports and shipments in the pipeline , ” said Sandeep Bajoria , chief executive of the Sunvin Group , a Mumbai - based vegetable oil broker .
“ But prices have already started rising . ”
Malaysian palm oil futures jumped 5 % on Wednesday on supply concerns after plantations were forced to shut operations .
Palm futures prices also rose in China and India .
NO EXEMPTION
Palm oil plantations in Malaysia requested an exemption from the government ’s strategy but have not heard back from the government , Nageeb Wahab , chief executive of the Malaysian Palm Oil Association , told Reuters .
“ In view of that , we have to adhere to the government directive to cease operations , ” the group wrote in a letter to members that was seen by Reuters .
A two - week halt in operations will be damaging to the industry , with fresh fruit bunches left to rot and the livelihoods of smallholders affected , an analyst said .
“ Inventory is low .
If we do n’t allow the planters to work for two weeks , after fulfilling export orders , we will be left with very little inventory which will be unprecedented , ” Ivy Ng , regional head of plantations research at CIMB Investment Bank told Reuters .
“ This could lead to potential revenue loss of RM1.6 billion for the industry at the current crude palm oil ( CPO ) spot price of RM2,280.5 per tonne , ” she said .
That would be a situation “ likely to result in a spike in CPO price given the tighter - than - expected supply and benefit other palm oil - producing nations like Indonesia and Thailand ” .
Malaysia ’s February end - stocks fell to 1.68 million tonnes , the lowest since June 2017 , according to data from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board .
The association ’s Nageeb has said it would take two to three months for things to return to normalcy after a shutdown .
( $ 1 = 74.0600
Indian rupees )
Reporting by Mei Mei Chu and Naveen Thukral ;
Editing by Richard Pullin and Kenneth Maxwell

After midnight rush, Malaysia's two-week isolation starts .
2020-03-18 06:38:40 +00:00 .
KUALA LUMPUR ( Reuters ) - Malaysia went into a two - week partial lockdown on Wednesday after coronavirus infections in the country spiked to the highest in Southeast Asia , with some buyers rushing to supermarkets to stock up on essentials like instant noodles .
An empty shelve is pictured at a supermarket amid fears of a disruption in supplies after the Malaysia 's government announces a restricted movement order imposed on March 18 due to the spread of the coronavirus disease , in Subang Jaya , Malaysia , March 17 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lim Huey Teng Malaysia and the Philippines , which has quarantined about half its 107 million population , have imposed the toughest restrictions on movements of people in Southeast Asia , causing early confusion and chaos , although capital markets in both countries will stay open .
Hours before the movement curbs kicked in at midnight in Malaysia , thousands of people queued up at bus stations to go back to their hometowns .
Hordes of Malaysians who commute daily to Singapore for work crossed the border to spend the next two weeks there .
“ Mass gatherings at bus terminals and then folks going all over the country from the active COVID-19 area in the country .
Are we not potentially spreading it nationwide ? ”
Malaysian physician Christopher Lee asked on Twitter .
Roads in the Malaysian capital Kuala Lumpur , normally some of the most congested in Southeast Asia on weekdays , were largely clear on Wednesday .
Some cafes and restaurants opened , but customers were allowed only takeaway food .
Big supermarket chains like Mydin put in measures including special shopping slots and cashier lanes for the elderly and disabled and limited the purchases of staples such as rice , flour , cooking oil , hand sanitisers and disinfectants .
“ People coming and rushing is still going to see the disease spread , ” said Ahmad Fauzi , 60 , who had been up early to shop to avoid the crowds .
“ They should be more calm . ”
Malaysia reported its first two coronavirus deaths on Tuesday , including a man who attended a mass Muslim gathering linked to nearly two - thirds of the country ’s 673 infections .
Mydin Managing Director Ameer Ali Mydin told Reuters that supply was adequate at his chain of store but that “ people must understand that they can not be too selective ” .
The government of Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin , who took office only this month , has said there is enough stock of essentials for the country of 32 million people .
BIG GATHERINGS
The gathering of Islamic missionaries at a mosque on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur was attended by 16,000 people , 1,500 of them foreigners , late last month .
So far 428 coronavirus infections in Malaysia have been linked to the mosque outbreak .
Authorities are also asking participants of a Hindu celebration in the northern state of Penang to get tested if they show any symptoms .
The event was held on March 8 and attended by around 10,000 people .
So far there is no confirmed or suspected case of infection among them , said M. Ramachandran , a local Hindu community leader , adding that all weddings and prayers at temples had been put on hold until March 31 .
Malaysia has shut its borders for travellers , restricted internal movement , closed schools and universities and ordered non - essential businesses to stay out .
Neighbouring Thailand has announced the closure of schools , bars , movie theatres , cockfighting arenas and other entertainment centres .
( Interactive graphic tracking global spread of coronavirus : open tmsnrt.rs/3aIRuz7 in an external browser )
( $ 1 = 4.3530 ringgit )
Additional reporting by Rozanna Latiff and Liz Lee ;
Editing by Michael Perry and Raju Gopalakrishnan

With Broadway's lights dimmed, actors mull pandemic's impact on their lives .
2020-03-18 06:20:58 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
A week after the bright lights of Broadway theaters in New York City were dimmed for a month to limit the spread of the new coronavirus , two actors weighed in on how the closures were affecting their daily lives .
FILE PHOTO : FILE PHOTO :
A woman rides a bicycle past the closed Imperial Theatre in Times Square after it was announced that Broadway shows will cancel performances due to the coronavirus outbreak in New York , U.S. , March 12 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Mike Segar / File Photo Joel Hatch , who plays real - life mayor Claude Elliott of Gander , Newfoundland in the award - winning “ Come From Away , ” said he agreed with Broadway ’s temporary closure .
The musical is set in tiny Gander , Newfoundland , where dozens of planes were forced to land after the Sept. 11 , 2001 attacks on New York and Washington D.C. , stranding thousands of passengers , who were then taken in by the locals .
Hatch compared the musical to the coronavirus outbreak in New York .
“ They thought about , ‘ We ’re all in this together . ’
And so I think that ’s a story that ’s worth adhering to right now , ” he said .
“ We have to stop thinking about ourselves personally and think about the general common good . ”
People should be “ doing healthy things , staying distant from each other , staying clean and trying to create less of a disaster for the people on the frontlines in our hospitals , ” Hatch said .
Roe Hartrampf was making his Broadway debut in the starring role as Prince Charles in “ Diana , ” a two - act musical chronicling Princess Diana ’s courtship and marriage to Charles and their eventual separation .
Speaking of the royals ’ outreach to lower - income communities and at - risk youth , Hartrampf said : “ I think we can take a cue from that in this moment and make sure that we are thinking about those who are actually at greater risk than we are . ”
Broadway was shaken last week when an usher who had worked at two New York theaters tested positive for the novel coronavirus .
The venues ’ owners said they had ordered deep cleaning , and their shows went ahead on Wednesday .
The Broadway League said in a statement that shows would be suspended until April 13.On the temporary closure of theaters , Hartrampf said : “ In terms of global public health , it ’s really important that we follow directions and commit to the social distancing aspect of it . ”
Some 14.8 million tickets were sold for Broadway shows in the 2018 - 2019 season that ended in May , bringing $ 1.8 billion in box office receipts , according to the Broadway League .
More than six out of 10 theatergoers were from outside the United States or outside New York .
Reporting by Roselle Chen ;
Editing by Bernadette Baum

UPDATE 1-Japan's exports fall, imports from China slump as virus impact widens .
2020-03-18 01:09:21 +00:00 .
( Recasts , adds context , bullets . )
* Feb exports -1.0 % yr / yr vs forecast -4.3 % * Feb imports -14.0 % yr / yr , trade surplus 1.1 trln yen
* Feb imports from China -47.1 % , largest drop since Aug 1986
* Feb trade surplus sees largest gain since Sept 2007
By Daniel Leussink TOKYO , March 18 ( Reuters ) - Japan ’s exports slipped for a 15th straight month in February as U.S. and China - bound shipments declined , suggesting a cooling of business activity in the world ’s third - largest economy due to the coronavirus outbreak .
Imports from China fell at their fastest pace since 1986 after the virus , which has killed more than 7,000 people worldwide , led to a widespread shutdown of production in the region ’s largest economy .
Ministry of Finance ( MOF ) data out on Wednesday showed Japan ’s exports fell 1.0 % from a year earlier in February , dragged by U.S.-bound shipments of cars and metal processing machinery to China .
It was the 15th straight month of contraction , marking the longest such run since a 23 - month stretch to July 1987 when the height of the country ’s stock market and real estate bubble was not yet reached , Refinitiv data showed .
The fall was also smaller than a 4.3 % decline expected by economists , and followed a 2.6 % decrease in January .
The data offers the strongest evidence yet of the growing economic impact coronavirus crisis .
Many companies complained about the closing of factories in China and declining trade with Asia ’s largest economy in a Reuters survey published on Wednesday .
That followed a survey the previous day that showed Japanese business confidence slumped to decade lows in march as the spreading coronavirus outbreak is dealing a heavy blow to Japan ’s economy .
By region , Japan ’s exports to China fell 0.4 % year - on - year in February , dragged down by falling shipments of integrated circuit chip manufacturing parts and ground products for chemicals .
U.S.-bound exports , a key destination for Japanese cars and electronics , dropped 2.6 % in February , posting a seventh straight month of declines due to falling exports of 3,000 - cc cars and semiconductor production equipment .
Reflecting weak domestic demand , Japan ’s total imports shed 14.0 % , in line with the median estimate for a 14.4 % decrease , dragged down by the sharp drop in imports from China .
Imports from China slumped 47.1 % from the previous year , seeing their biggest drop since August 1986 , ministry officials said , as the country went into lockdown due to the spreading coronavirus epidemic .
As a result , Japan ’s trade balance recorded a surplus of 1.110 trillion yen ( $ 10.34 billion ) , its largest since September 2007 , versus the median estimate for a 917.2 billion yen surplus .
( $ 1 = 107.3500 yen ) ( Reporting by Daniel Leussink ;
Editing by Sam Holmes )

Borrowers examine Ebitda definitions in credit agreements as coronavirus spreads .
2020-03-17 20:50:43 +00:00 .
NEW YORK , March 17 ( LPC ) -
As the fast - spreading coronavirus shuts down operations across the globe , companies are examining their loan agreements seeking any potential relief to stave off a default as they prepare for what could be a steep drop in earnings .
Companies including golf equipment manufacturer Callaway Golf and toy maker Hasbro have warned investors that the virus , which the World Health Organization ( WHO ) in late January declared a ‘ public health emergency of international concern , ’ could hurt their earnings .
Some borrowers are now looking to see if they would be permitted under their credit agreement to make adjustments to their earnings before interest , taxes , depreciation and amortization ( Ebitda ) based on virus - related losses .
More than 190,000 people globally have been infected with over 7,800 deaths as of March 17 , according to data compiled by the Johns Hopkins Center for Systems Science and Engineering .
To prevent a wider contagion , businesses around the world , including Apple , Under Armour and Nike , have announced plans to shut retail stores .
As a result of supply chain disruptions , which have impacted manufacturing operations and reduced consumer demand , a significant number of businesses will probably experience lower earnings , at least in the near term , Shearman
Sterling lawyers wrote in a March 11 report .
Amid declining revenues , borrowers could face difficulties complying with financial covenants in their debt documents and in possibly servicing their debt .
With little clarity for when businesses might reopen and facing downgrades due to interruptions in operations , companies are looking to see if there is a way within their loan documents to offset losses to boost Ebitda , which could help avoid a potential default .
There has been a focus on credit agreement language on Ebitda addbacks – with borrowers asking for a coronavirus cost addback in new deal documents , according to Jake Mincemoyer , head of law firm White Case ’s Americas banking unit .
There have also been discussions about whether cost implications arising from the coronavirus would fit within the definition of an existing addback such as the “ extraordinary , unusual , or non - recurring charges ” clause , he said .
The majority of US leveraged loans lack a full set of lender protections , known as covenants .
If companies are forced to draw on their revolving lines of credit for liquidity , they could trigger springing maintenance tests that rely on a measure of Ebitda , which could be negatively impacted by the coronavirus .
Research firm Covenant Review said in a March 6 report that borrowers might be able to make an argument that charges related to a pandemic could be characterized as “ extraordinary , unusual or non - recurring . ”
Thus , virus - related charges could be added back to Ebitda .
But decreased earnings and access to liquidity are not just issues that will affect business ’ first three months of 2020 ; companies need to be prepared to address the problems over an extended period .
Depending on how long this virus lasts , there are leverage ratio tests for maintenance covenants or incurrence covenants based on Ebitda , according to Michael Chernick , a partner in the finance group at law firm Shearman
Sterling .
“ This is something that borrowers are going to have to think about for the next year in terms of navigating through their credit agreements , ” he said .
( Reporting by Kristen Haunss ;
Editing by Michelle Sierra )

With Broadway's lights dimmed, actors mull pandemic's impact on their lives .
2020-03-17 20:37:43 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
The closed Shubert Theater where the play " To Kill A Mockingbird " plays after it was announced that Broadway shows will cancel performances due to the coronavirus outbreak in New York , U.S. , March 12 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Mike Segar NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
A week after the bright lights of Broadway theaters in New York City were dimmed for a month to limit the spread of the new coronavirus , two actors weighed in on how the closures were affecting their daily lives .
Joel Hatch , who plays real - life mayor Claude Elliott of Gander , Newfoundland in the award - winning “ Come From Away , ” said he agreed with Broadway ’s temporary closure .
The musical is set in tiny Gander , Newfoundland , where dozens of planes were forced to land after the Sept. 11 , 2001 attacks on New York and Washington D.C. , stranding thousands of passengers , who were then taken in by the locals .
Hatch compared the musical to the coronavirus outbreak in New York .
”They thought about , ‘ We ’re all in this together . ’
And so I think that ’s a story that ’s worth adhering to right now , ” he said .
“ We have to stop thinking about ourselves personally and think about the general common good . ”
People should be “ doing healthy things , staying distant from each other , staying clean and trying to create less of a disaster for the people on the frontlines in our hospitals , ” Hatch said .
Roe Hartrampf was making his Broadway debut in the starring role as Prince Charles in “ Diana , ” a two - act musical chronicling Princess Diana ’s courtship and marriage to Charles and their eventual separation .
Speaking of the royals ’ outreach to lower - income communities and at - risk youth , Hartrampf said : “ I think we can take a cue from that in this moment and make sure that we are thinking about those who are actually at greater risk than we are . ”
Broadway was shaken last week when an usher who had worked at two New York theaters tested positive for the novel coronavirus .
The venues ’ owners said they had ordered deep cleaning , and their shows went ahead on Wednesday .
The Broadway League said in a statement that shows would be suspended until April 13.On the temporary closure of theaters , Hartrampf said : “ In terms of global public health , it ’s really important that we follow directions and commit to the social distancing aspect of it .
”Some 14.8 million tickets were sold for Broadway shows in the 2018 - 2019 season that ended in May , bringing $ 1.8 billion in box office receipts , according to the Broadway League .
More than six out of 10 theatergoers were from outside the United States or outside New York .
Reporting by Roselle Chen ;
Editing by Bernadette Baum

Brent crude sinks below $30/bbl as recession fears weigh .
2020-03-17 20:16:19 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) - Crude oil prices settled below $ 30 a barrel as the coronavirus pandemic slowed economic growth and oil demand on Tuesday while Saudi Arabia and Russia kept up their battle for market share .
FILE PHOTO :
Drilling rigs operate at sunset in Midland , Texas , U.S. , February 13 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Nick Oxford / File Photo Countries including the United States and Canada , along with nations in Europe and Asia , are taking unprecedented steps to contain the virus , which has already killed 7,500 people .
Numerous governments have told residents to restrict their movements while businesses shutter , curbing demand for fuels .
Brent crude LCOc1 futures fell $ 1.32 to settle at $ 28.73 , the first time that benchmark has settled below $ 30 per barrel since 2016 .
It then fell further in post - settlement trade .
West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) crude CLc1 futures fell $ 1.75 , or 6.1 % , to settle at $ 26.95 a barrel .
“ You ’re getting new demand destruction news coming at you every hour , ” said John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital Management in New York .
Amid the loss of demand because of the pandemic , Saudi Arabia and Russia remain embroiled in a price war that erupted after the two top producers failed to agree to extend supply curbs to support the market .
The Saudi energy ministry said on Tuesday that the kingdom ’s crude exports are set to rise in coming months to more than 10 million barrels per day , as it plans to use more gas for power rather than burning crude .
Brent ’s premium over WTI WTCLc1 - LCOc1 has narrowed sharply to 67 cents a barrel , reaching levels not seen since November 2016 .
Brent , the international benchmark , reacts more to supply from non - U.S. producers , so the anticipated increase in output from Saudi Arabia and Russia has hit that benchmark harder than WTI .
When that premium - also known as the arbitrage - narrows , U.S. exports become less attractive because of the cost of shipping them .
“ Lower priced Brent will be attracting additional cargoes towards Europe while the comparatively high priced WTI will be enticing imports into the U.S. while at the same time , curtailing export activity as the Saudis attempt to re - gain some long lost market share , ” said Jim Ritterbusch , president of Ritterbusch and Associates in Galena , Illinois , in a report .
The United States has said it will take advantage of low oil prices to fill its Strategic Petroleum Reserve ( SPR ) .
Other countries and companies are planning similar measures to fill storage tanks .
Rates to store oil at the world ’s main trading hubs from Japan to South Africa and the United States are surging as millions of unconsumed barrels of oil hit the market daily .
Attention will focus on weekly U.S. inventory reports that are expected to show crude inventories rising for an eighth straight week .
The American Petroleum Institute releases its supply report at 3:30 p.m. EDT ( 2030 GMT ) , with U.S. Energy Department figures due to be published on Wednesday .
[ EIA / S ]
Additional reporting by Alex Lawler , Dmitry Zhdannikov Seng Li Peng , Aaron Sheldrick and Alex Lawler ;
Editing by David Gregorio , Marguerita Choy and Tom Brown

UAW seeks auto plant shutdown as COVID-19 crisis deepens .
2020-03-17 18:09:23 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
The head of the United Auto Workers on Tuesday turned up pressure on Detroit automakers to shutter U.S. factories for two weeks due to the fast - moving coronavirus , and warned that the union could take strong unilateral action if the companies fail to act immediately .
The GM logo is seen at the General Motors Warren Transmission Operations Plant in Warren , Michigan October 26 , 2015 .
REUTERS /
Rebecca Cook UAW President Rory Gamble , in a letter to union members on Tuesday , said the automakers had until Tuesday afternoon to respond to the shutdown request or “ we will take this conversation to the next level . ”
Gamble wrote that he had asked the automakers on Sunday to shut U.S. factories , but the companies had asked for 48 hours to work out alternatives .
Gamble ’s letter did not specify what action the union would take .
A walkout would be costly for the automakers , which build their most profitable trucks and sport utility vehicles at U.S. factories represented by the UAW .
Evercore ISI in a note Monday highlighted that a six - week strike at General Motors Co ( GM.N ) last fall cost the company $ 5.4 billion in free cash flow and reduced production by 300,000 vehicles .
One option the automakers could take is to move a two - week shutdown scheduled for July into this month .
Gamble ’s letter brings into the open tensions that have been simmering since the GM , Ford Motor Co ( F.N ) , and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV ( FCHA.MI ) began allowing salaried employees to work from home to minimize the chances of exposure to coronavirus .
At the same time , the companies have required blue collar employees to report for duty in factories where thousands work side by side on assembly lines , also congregating in break rooms , cafeterias and lines to enter and leave the plants .
In his letter to members , Gamble said he has the support of “ powerful allies ” among Michigan political leaders , including Democratic Governor Gretchen Whitmer and U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell .
GM replied to Gamble ’s letter confirming there would be a meeting with UAW leaders later Tuesday .
Separately , GM and Ford disclosed that they each have had one employee , both working at U.S. engineering centers , test positive for coronavirus .
They marked the first confirmed cases of coronavirus among the automakers ’ U.S. employees .
While GM said that its affected employee was based at its Michigan technical center , the UAW separately said the GM worker was a member of the union .
GM said its medical team was working to speak with co - workers who may have had direct contact with the infected employee , and they will be told to self - quarantine for 14 days .
GM officials learned the employee had tested positive for the highly contagious COVID-19 respiratory illness on Monday , after the company had issued an order that salaried employees should work from home .
Access to the building where the employee worked was restricted , and the building was cleaned , GM spokesman Jim Cain said Tuesday .
The head of the UAW ’s GM department said in a statement the union was working with GM to inform any UAW members who should be in quarantine .
At Ford , the company said an employee working at a product development office in Dearborn , Michigan , was exposed to coronavirus after leaving work several days ago , and was diagnosed before returning to work .
“ This person was n’t at the workplace at that building or any other facility , ” Ford spokesman T.R. Reid said Tuesday .
Reporting by Rachit Vats in Bengaluru and Paul Lienert and Joe White in Detroit , Editing by Chris Reese and
Tom Brown

Hungary's first 'quarantine theatre' streams post-nuclear attack play .
2020-03-17 14:55:14 +00:00 .
BUDAPEST ( Reuters ) - A group of actors have set up Hungary ’s “ first quarantine theatre ” , streaming a play via Facebook about a man and a woman who find themselves in an underground nuclear fallout shelter and have to adapt to their new reality , and to each other .
A woman waches the live stream of the performance of the ' First Hungarian Quarantine Theatre ' in Budapest , Hungary , March 16 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 16 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Bernadett Szabo
The two - hander was streamed on Monday just hours before the Hungarian government closed borders to all foreigners , after shutting down schools nationwide in a bid to slow the spread of the coronavirus .
Dennis Kelly ’s play “ After the End ” has an unsettling topicality and will hopefully help viewers to reflect on the new situation , the stage director , Laszlo Magacs said .
He said the idea came after theatres were closed .
They work from a boat called TRIP , a once popular cultural venue and theatre , anchored on the Danube river in Budapest , and which is now without an audience .
“ What is art about ?
Art gives ... examples to help lead our lives .
This play , “ After the End ” , is about the interaction between two people in a closed space , ” Magacs said .
“ It is about tolerance , paying attention to each other , about the frustrations stemming from being locked in a small space , and the psychological game between the two people when there is no way to let off the steam . ”
The two actors first acted the play about Louise , a popular office worker , who finds herself in the shelter with a colleague from another department , in 2008 .
Now , 12 years later the play gets a new meaning in the current situation .
“ This successful young woman finds herself ...
all of a sudden in a situation where she loses control , ” said Annamaria Lang who plays Louise .
“ This is about how we can adapt , how flexible we are and how we can preserve our common sense . ”
The theatre streamed the first act on Monday , and is planning to stream the second act on Tuesday night , after the government closed all cinemas , theatres and entertainment facilities .
Magacs said they would always keep to the rules , and keep serving their audience as long as it is possible .
They are also planning to stage “ The Plague ” , a novel by Albert Camus , published in 1947 , that tells the story of a plague sweeping a city in Algeria .
additional reporting by Balazs Kaufmann ;
Editing by Alexandra Hudson

Bags packed, Malaysians stream into Singapore ahead of coronavirus travel ban .
2020-03-17 13:59:39 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) -
Thousands of Malaysian commuters , many with suitcases stuffed with clothes , crossed into neighbouring Singapore on Tuesday evening , prepared for at least two weeks away from home , hours before their country starts to seal its borders .
Commuters leave the Woodlands Causeway across to Singapore from Johor , hours before Malaysia imposes a lockdown on travel due to the coronavirus outbreak , in Singapore March 17 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Edgar Su
With the highest number of coronavirus infections in Southeast Asia , Malaysia is banning citizens from travelling overseas and visitors from entering the country from midnight until March 31 to help stop the spread of the disease .
But many of the 300,000 Malaysians who commute daily to Singapore were caught off guard by Monday night ’s announcement , which could have left them without a salary for the duration of the ban .
Lau Tong Lin , 21 , is back in the city - state after going home to pack following a night shift at a Singapore supermarket .
Lau said he plans to bunk with a cousin in Singapore .
“ If I did n’t come then I might have had to take no - pay leave , ” he said , adding he was afraid of losing his job .
Singapore , with a population of 5.7 million , relies heavily on Malaysians living in the southern state of Johor to staff businesses ranging from restaurants to semiconductor manufacturing .
The Singapore government has said it will assist companies that need to accommodate workers , including by finding them hotels and dormitories at a lower cost .
The labour ministry will fund S$50 ( $ 35.02 ) per night for 14 nights for each worker that a company needs to accommodate .
After a traffic jam at the border , 27 - year - old Nur Juliana got off her bus and decided to walk for an hour with two of her friends into Singapore .
She said that while her company , which manufactures medical products , is putting her up at a hotel , her parents were worried about the condition of her accommodation .
Despite the travel ban , Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said his Malaysian counterpart Muhyiddin Yassin had reassured him that the flow of food and other goods would go on as normal .
Singapore on Tuesday reported 23 new cases of coronavirus , its biggest daily jump , taking its tally to 266 infections .
Malaysia and Singapore , which separated in 1965 after a brief union following independence from Britain , have close economic ties .
The two countries , separated by a strait , have two land checkpoints .
As the deadline loomed , technician Lenin Prabaagaran was rushing home to pack his bags so he could make it out before the border closed .
“ I have no choice , or I have to go on no - pay leave , ” he added .
Additional reporting by Fathin Ungku in Singapore ; Writing by Aradhana Aravindan ;
Editing by Mark Heinrich

UPDATE 3-Asian refiner transport fuel profits plunge on virus fight .
2020-03-17 13:58:21 +00:00 .
* More nations restrict movement , cut fuel demand
* Refiners face losses on gasoline production
* Jet fuel margins fall below $ 5 / bbl * China clean products exports to hit new high in March - Kpler ( Adds Kpler comment )
By Seng Li Peng and Koustav Samanta SINGAPORE , March 17 ( Reuters ) - Oil refiners ’ profits for transportation fuels fell further this week and the margin for producing gasoline turned negative for the first time in more than a year , Refinitiv data showed .
The margins plunged to new multi - year or multi - month lows after more countries imposed international travel restrictions and curbed domestic movement , as part of measures to slow the spread of the coronavirus .
Airlines and airports face a huge shock as they battle a cash crunch resulting from the coronavirus , while gasoline demand in the United States , the world ’s largest oil consumer , is plunging as state and local governments advise people to stay at home and businesses to shut .
In Asia , refiners are losing 78 cents on every barrel of gasoline they produce from Brent crude , their biggest loss in 13 months , Reuters data showed .
GL92 - SIN - CRK U.S. gasoline refining margins RBc1 - CLc1 fell a whopping 95 % on Monday - briefly turning negative - to settle at 28 cents per barrel , their lowest since December 2008 .
Chinese refiners boosted exports of clean products , such as gasoline and jet fuel , after domestic demand slumped , adding to a glut in the region .
Their exports are estimated at 1.48 million barrels per day so far through March , up 153,000 bpd against a record set in February , oil analytics firm Kpler said .
Asian refining margins , or cracks , for jet fuel plunged to $ 4.71 per barrel over Dubai crude , the lowest on record based on Refinitiv data going back to March 2009 .
They were at $ 7.70 on Friday .
“ I do n’t expect any recovery yet for jet fuel ( margins ) , and I ’m very much concerned ( to know ) if the current level is bottom yet ...
But jet fuel will be the last to recover when the economy recovers , ” a Singapore - based jet fuel trader said .
“ The world has to wait for every country to go through this virus peak .
Then demand will slowly come back , but my guess is probably not before late third quarter , ” she said .
Cracks for aviation fuel have shed nearly 70 % since the beginning of this year as flight cancellations across regions led to unprecedented losses for airlines .
Asian refiners may have to curtail jet fuel output because of the weakening demand .
Jet fuel can not typically be stored for long periods as its quality degrades , increasing the incentive for refiners to produce less of it .
“ When crude prices fell heavily early last week … it gave an incentive to refineries to keep runs unchanged .
Eventually , with the virus - related situation developing , it ’s now the second time for global refineries to think of run cuts again , ” a Seoul - based middle distillates trader said .
Reporting by Seng Li Peng and Koustav Samanta ; Writing by Florence Tan ; Editing by Christian Schmollinger , Tom Hogue and
Barbara Lewis

Euro 2020 championship postponed over coronavirus - Norwegian and Swedish FAs .
2020-03-17 13:24:54 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Soccer ’s 2020 European Championship has been postponed for a year as the world fights to contain the outbreak of the coronavirus , the Norwegian and Swedish FAs said on Tuesday .
FILE PHOTO :
A person wearing a protective face mask walks past the Euro 2020 countdown clock , as the number of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) cases worldwide continues to grow , in central Saint Petersburg , Russia March 16 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Anton Vaganov / File Photo “ Postponed until 11/6- 11/7 2021 .
Will get back to you after the meeting , ” Swedish FA chairman Karl - Erik Nilsson said in a message to Reuters during a UEFA videoconference call .
The Norwegian FA tweeted the news from its official account .
UEFA , who is yet to confirm the decision , was under pressure to push back the tournament to give suspended domestic leagues time to be completed .
European soccer ’s governing body was holding a video conference with all 55 of its affiliated national football federations and representatives of clubs , leagues and players .
The decision will go before UEFA ’s Executive Committee to be rubber - stamped later on Tuesday .
It is the first time in the competition ’s history that the final stages have been postponed .
News of the postponement broke after Reuters had earlier learned UEFA had cancelled its hotel bookings in Copenhagen , one of the host cities for the championships that had been scheduled to be held from June 12 - July 12 this year .
The CPH Hotel told Reuters over the phone that UEFA had booked 80 of its 102 rooms , but cancelled them a little over a week ago .
The Marienlyst Strandhotel , where the Danish team usually bases itself , told Reuters in an email that UEFA had also cancelled the rooms booked on behalf of the Danish side .
The decision to put back the 24 - team tournament follows football , like numerous other sports , being brought to a virtual standstill by the coronavirus outbreak .
The virus has infected almost 180,000 people and killed more than 7,000 worldwide , with the epicentre now in Europe as infection rates slow down in China where the outbreak began .
All five of Europe ’s top domestic leagues — England , Spain , Italy , France and Germany — are suspended , along with the Champions League , Europa League and World Cup qualifiers .
Leagues have urged UEFA to prioritise completing domestic competitions , reflecting a concern that clubs throughout Europe will lose significant ticket and associated match - day revenue by not completing the season while still having to pay their players ’ salaries .
Cancelled seasons would also risk significant compensation claims from rights - holding TV broadcasters .
The European championship is usually held in one or two host nations , but was spread around the continent this time in what organisers said was a romantic one - off event .
The host cities are Amsterdam , Baku , Bilbao , Bucharest , Budapest , Copenhagen , Dublin , Glasgow , London , Munich , Rome and St Petersburg .
Writing by Brian Homewood ; Editing by Hugh Lawson and
Pritha Sarkar

UPDATE 2-Sasol considers $2 bln rights issue to help steady balance sheet .
2020-03-17 13:16:33 +00:00 .
* Sasol could issue $ 2 billion in new shares
* Aims to raise $ 6 billion to strengthen balance sheet * Sasol shares hurt by fall in oil price over COVID-19 * Firm to sell assets and look at partner in U.S ( Adds analyst comment , detail , updates shares )
By Tanisha Heiberg JOHANNESBURG , March 17 ( Reuters ) - South Africa ’s Sasol said it would consider a rights issue of up to $ 2 billion as it works to ensure it can pay its debt after an oil price slide and fears over the coronavirus outbreak sent its shares to a 21 - year low .
The world ’s top manufacturer of motor fuel from coal , which is battling high debt , the impact of the coronaries outbreak and falls in oil and chemical prices , said on Tuesday it aimed to generate $ 6 billion as it seeks to stabilise its balance sheet .
Sasol said was also in talks with its lenders to make sure it has “ adequate flexibility ” on its debt covenants .
The company said it had liquidity of around $ 2.5 billion with no significant debt maturities before May 2021 and believed it could withstand recent market volatility in the short term .
Sasol shares hit a 21 - year low last week after the fall in oil prices , raising concerns about its debt levels and forcing it to implement a plan to strengthen its balance sheet .
On Tuesday , Sasol said it had already entered into a stand - by underwriting agreement with BofA Securities , Citigroup and J.P. Morgan Securities for the plan to selling up to $ 2 billion additional shares to strengthen its balance sheet .
The rights issue is expected to be executed after its 2020 results , depending on the progress Sasol makes in improving its balance sheet .
“ The immediate focus is on the actions to stabilise the company and protect the balance sheet so that the underlying value of the portfolio is not compromised , and instead the potential realised in the interests of all Sasol ’s stakeholders , ” Sasol said in a statement .
Sasol said it would also immediately target measures to deliver a cash improvement of approximately $ 1 billion by the end of June , look at selling assets above its original target of $ 2 billion and seek a potential partner at its U.S. Base Chemicals assets , which includes its troubled Louisiana project .
Investors have been concerned by the company ’s debt , largely due to delays and cost overruns at its Lake Charles Chemicals project ( LCCP ) in Louisiana .
The project converts natural gas into plastics ingredient ethylene , and the overruns are expected to reach as much as $ 12.8 billion , up from a 2014 forecast of $ 8.9 billion .
Sasol said it will review its global cost competitiveness and business structure in an effort to ensure profitability in a sustained low oil price environment
But it was confident it could comply with covenant thresholds in its debt agreements at June , 30 2020 assuming a prevailing oil price of around 580 rand ( $ 35 ) per barrel .
“ I remain concerned about the timing of initiatives particularly since management did not disclose whether it was able to extend covenant headroom from its lenders for its December 2020 reporting period .
Without the extension , Sasol may not have sufficient time to realise optimal value within its asset disposal program and would then be cornered into a rights issue , ” said Avior ’s diversified resources analyst Wade Napier .
Shares in the petrochemicals group rose 15 % after the announcement , but then reversed the gains and were down 17.64 % at 37.33 rand by 1137 GMT .
Sasol said it will hold a conference call on the measures to improve its balance sheet at 1300 GMT on Tuesday .
( $ 1 = 16.5941 rand ) ( Reporting by Tanisha Heiberg ;
Editing by Kim Coghill , Louise Heavens and Alexander Smith )

Hungary's first 'quarantine theatre' streams post-nuclear attack play .
2020-03-17 12:48:54 +00:00 .
BUDAPEST ( Reuters ) - A group of actors have set up Hungary ’s “ first quarantine theatre ” , streaming a play via Facebook about a man and a woman who find themselves in an underground nuclear fallout shelter and have to adapt to their new reality , and to each other .
Actors of the ' First Hungarian Quarantine Theatre ' perform on stage in an empty hall on a boat anchored on the Danube in Budapest , Hungary , March 16 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 16 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Bernadett Szabo
The two - hander was streamed on Monday just hours before the Hungarian government closed borders to all foreigners , after shutting down schools nationwide in a bid to slow the spread of the coronavirus .
Dennis Kelly ’s play “ After the End ” has an unsettling topicality and will hopefully help viewers to reflect on the new situation , the stage director , Laszlo Magacs said .
He said the idea came after theatres were closed .
They work from a boat called TRIP , a once popular cultural venue and theatre , anchored on the Danube river in Budapest , and which is now without an audience .
“ What is art about ?
Art gives ... examples to help lead our lives .
This play , “ After the End ” , is about the interaction between two people in a closed space , ” Magacs said .
“ It is about tolerance , paying attention to each other , about the frustrations stemming from being locked in a small space , and the psychological game between the two people when there is no way to let off the steam . ”
The two actors first acted the play about Louise , a popular office worker , who finds herself in the shelter with a colleague from another department , in 2008 .
Now , 12 years later the play gets a new meaning in the current situation .
“ This successful young woman finds herself ...
all of a sudden in a situation where she loses control , ” said Annamaria Lang who plays Louise .
“ This is about how we can adapt , how flexible we are and how we can preserve our common sense . ”
The theatre streamed the first act on Monday , and is planning to stream the second act on Tuesday night , after the government closed all cinemas , theatres and entertainment facilities .
Magacs said they would always keep to the rules , and keep serving their audience as long as it is possible .
They are also planning to stage “ The Plague ” , a novel by Albert Camus , published in 1947 , that tells the story of a plague sweeping a city in Algeria .
additional reporting by Balazs Kaufmann ;
Editing by Alexandra Hudson

Oil falls to $30 on recession fears and Saudi pump war .
2020-03-17 11:32:17 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Oil fell below $ 30 a barrel on Tuesday , trading close to its lowest in more than four years , as the coronavirus pandemic hit demand and Saudi Arabia raised output to a record as it battles with Russia for market share .
FILE PHOTO :
Oil pump jacks work at sunset near Midland , Texas , U.S. , August 21 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Jessica Lutz Countries including the United States and Canada , along with nations in Europe and Asia , are taking unprecedented steps to contain the virus , curbing demand for crude and products such as gasoline and jet fuel .
U.S. President Donald Trump warned on Monday that the United States may be heading into recession as economic activity across the globe slowed and stock markets tumbled .
Brent crude LCOc1 fell as much as 1.5 % on Tuesday to $ 29.60 a barrel but was up 0.3 % at $ 30.13 by 1053 GMT , having earlier touched $ 31.25 .
On Monday it sank to $ 29.45 , the lowest since January 2016 .
“ Oil has made new lows , ” said Tamas Varga of oil broker PVM .
“ There is simply nothing , neither a fundamental nor technical development , that implies that the rot we are experiencing will come to a halt any time soon . ”
U.S. West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) crude CLc1 reversed most of an earlier 4.7 % gain to stand at $ 29.12 .
The United States has said it will take advantage of low oil prices to fill its Strategic Petroleum Reserve ( SPR ) .
Other countries and companies are planning similar measures to fill storage tanks .
Attention will focus later on U.S. inventory reports that are expected to show crude inventories rising for an eighth straight week .
The American Petroleum Institute releases its supply report at 2030 GMT and government inventory data is due to be published on Wednesday .
Despite the loss of oil demand because of the global spread of the virus , Saudi Arabia and Russia are embroiled in a price war instigated after failing to agree to extend supply curbs to support the market .
Saudi Aramco 2222.SE has said it is likely to carry over its planned higher oil output for April into May and that it is “ very comfortable ” with an oil price of $ 30 a barrel .
“ There is still every sign of a price war on the oil market , ” said Commerzbank analyst Carsten Fritsch .
“ If the announced production increases are actually implemented , the price risks plunging further towards the $ 20 mark . ”
Additional reporting by Seng Li Peng , Aaron Sheldrick and Alex Lawler ;
Editing by Kirsten Donovan and David Goodman

Philippines first country to suspend all markets as coronavirus spreads .
2020-03-17 07:13:11 +00:00 .
MANILA / SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) -
The Philippine Stock Exchange closed indefinitely on Tuesday while currency and bond trading were suspended , the first shutdown of markets worldwide in response to the coronavirus , with authorities citing risks to the safety of traders .
A man wearing a protective mask sits outside the Philippine Stock Exchange at the central business district as the government implements an " enhanced community quarantine " in the country ’s main island Luzon to contain the coronavirus , in Makati City , Metro Manila , Philippines , March 17 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Eloisa
Lopez
The move comes after some bourses around the world closed trading floors or paused trade after withering falls in market value .
It is the first blanket market halt .
And while the Philippine shutdown was prompted by health reasons , amid a broad nationwide lockdown , it raises the prospect other exchanges may follow and has drawn analysts ’ attention .
“ Given the unprecedented speed of the slump in equity prices , it has been suggested that stock exchanges might be closed soon if things do n’t turn around , ” research house Capital Economics said in a note on Tuesday .
Global markets are in meltdown as the pandemic spreads , with roughly $ 14 trillion in shareholder value erased and even safe assets such as gold have been sold to cover losses .
AdMacro research head Patrick Perret - Green had also raised the possibility in a note issued over the weekend , before the Philippines move .
“ We have seen it before .
I believe we could see it again , ” he said .
“ Governments do not need or want the added stress and distraction at this time . ”
The Philippine Stock Exchange said trade was suspended until further notice “ to ensure the safety of employees and traders , ” amid a broader national lockdown .
National Treasurer Rosalia de Leon cited the lockdown as the reason for the suspension of fixed income trade .
Currency trading is to resume on March 18 .
In Malaysia , where a similar lockdown comes into force on March 18 , the securities regulator said all capital markets will operate as usual .
CME Group Inc last week shut its storied trading floor in Chicago , to reduce large gatherings , and Mideast bourses have taken similar measures , though electronic trade remains available .
China had delayed the resumption of work , including stock market trade , after the Lunar New Year break .
REPRIEVE OR RISKY ?
Opinions are divided , though , on whether a suspension of a stock market that includes giant conglomerates like San Miguel Corp , can actually support sentiment .
Renzo Louie Candano , analyst at DBP - Daiwa Capital Markets in Manila , said it would give investors time to evaluate whether the sell - off is warranted .
Others say it could exacerbate volatility when trading does resume , while possibly hurting the government ’s ability to raise funds in the bond market .
“ With markets closed , it would be puzzling how additional government bonds would be issued and received by markets , ” said Ken Peng , head of Asia investment strategy at Citi Private Bank .
“ Especially when investors can not get liquidity out of their stock and bond holdings . ”
The Philippines benchmark index fell 8 % on Monday and is down 20 % for March so far , already its worst month since October 2008 , while bond prices have also collapsed .
The yield on 10 - year government debt , which rises when prices fall , jumped 63 basis points on Monday , the sharpest rise since September 2018 .
Reporting by Karen Lema and Neil Jerome Morales in Manila , Tom Westbrook in Singapore and Liz Lee in Kuala Lumpur ; Editing by Kim Coghill
Shri Navaratnam

Japan's Abe says G7 supports 'complete' Games, polls back postponement .
2020-03-17 04:07:14 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on Tuesday that Group of Seven leaders had agreed to support a “ complete ” Olympics , but dodged questions about whether any of the leaders had brought up the possibility of postponement .
Japan 's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe talks with other G7 leaders during a video conference at his official residence in Tokyo , Japan March 16 , 2020 , in this photo released by Japan 's Cabinet Public Relations Office via Kyodo March 17 , 2020 .
Picture taken March 16 , 2020 .
Mandatory credit Japan 's Cabinet Public Relations Office via Kyodo / via REUTERS ATTENTION EDITORS - THIS IMAGE WAS PROVIDED BY A THIRD PARTY .
MANDATORY CREDIT .
JAPAN OUT .
NO COMMERCIAL OR EDITORIAL SALES IN JAPAN .
His comments come as concerns mount about whether the Games can proceed as planned now that the rapidly spreading coronavirus pandemic has brought business and social activity in many countries to a standstill and panic to financial markets .
A fresh domestic poll showed most Japanese believe the Games should be postponed .
In a unprecedented meeting with other G7 leaders by videoconference to discuss the coronavirus pandemic , Abe said he had told them : “ We are doing everything in our power to prepare ( for the Games ) , and we want to aim for a complete event as proof that mankind can defeat the new coronavirus . ”
When pressed at a briefing about whether there had been discussion of a delay , Abe repeated the same line .
Interpreting Abe ’s comments at a news conference hours later
, Olympics Minister Seiko Hashimoto said a “ complete ” event referred to holding the Games this summer as scheduled , with spectators present .
But Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga also dodged a question about the timing of the Games , repeating the government ’s stance that it continued to work with the International Olympic Committee , organising members and the Tokyo government on preparations .
An Asahi newspaper poll published on Tuesday showed 63 % of people across Japan said the games should be postponed , while 23 % said they should be held as planned .
A similar poll by Kyodo News published on Monday showed almost 70 % of respondents do not think Tokyo will be able to host the gathering as planned .
At the G7 video conference , leaders committed to doing “ whatever is necessary ” to battle the coronavirus pandemic and to work together more closely to protect public health , jobs and growth , and issued a statement promising to address the health and economic risks .
John Coates , the IOC ’s point man for the Tokyo Games , told Australia ’s Fairfax media that there was no need to make a call on the Games by May , as IOC committee member Dick Pound had previously suggested .
“ The IOC did n’t recognise any dates that Dick came up with and I think Dick backed off that as well , ” Coates , the IOC Coordination Commission chairman was quoted as saying in the report .
“ It ’s all proceeding to start on the 24th of July . ”
The virus has infected almost 180,000 people and killed over 7,000 worldwide , with the epicentre now in Europe .
Sports competitions have come to a halt in Europe , hampering athletes ’ preparations .
Further stoking those concerns , the head of the French Olympic Committee said on Monday the pandemic must have reached its peak and be on the wane by the end of May for the Tokyo Olympics to be staged on schedule .
U.S. President Donald Trump has said the worst of the virus could be over by July or August , a more specific and lengthier timeframe than he has previously suggested .
The Olympics are due to run from July 24 to Aug. 9 .
Reporting by Chang - Ran Kim , Kiyoshi Takenaka and Rocky Swift ; Editing by Himani Sarkar and Edwina
Gibbs

Olympics: Hokkaido's farmhorse jockeys dream torch relay can spur racing revival .
2020-03-17 02:58:19 +00:00 .
OBIHIRO , Japan ( Reuters ) -
At Obihiro racetrack , spectators walk alongside the course as fast as the big beasts they ’ve backed to win , cheering as they go .
There ’s no sprinting in this contest : The adrenaline charge is all about power - pure , 1 - tonne horse power .
Jokceys and ' Banei ' horses compete during their ' Banei ' Keiba race , a form of farm horse racing , at Obihiro ' Banei ' horse Race Track in Obihiro , Hokkaido , Japan February 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Issei Kato
The Obihiro track is for ‘ ban’ei keiba ’ , traditional racing featuring giant farmhorses on Japan ’s northernmost island of Hokkaido .
Every Saturday , Sunday and Monday , the horses pull sleds that equal their own tonne in weight , guided by a jockey , along a 200 - metre sand track - with two mounds to climb along the way .
This June , a new attraction is set to grace Obihiro .
The Olympic torch is to be carried down the track by one of the heavy horses , as part of the flame ’s relay tour of Japan before arriving in Tokyo for the Summer Games .
Tetsuya Satou , general manager of the racecourse , is counting on the arrival of the torch in June to bring new attention to the sport .
“ This is a real honor ...
The relay using an animal is not happening elsewhere in the whole country , ” said Satou .
That attention could be much needed for an ageing sport in serious decline .
Ban’ei - meaning ‘ pull ’ - racing began around 1900 as contests among Hokkaido farmers showing off the strength of their horses .
After World War II , it was turned into a sport , complete with rules , betting and four tracks .
But as popular tastes have changed , crowds have dwindled and Obihiro is now the last track in operation .
The number of jockeys fell to 19 in 2018 from 28 in 2013 , data show .
Still , supporters say the unique nature of the sport offers a key to its survival .
“ Climbing up obstacles is something different from regular horse races , ” said Kouhei Kaneta , a 26 - year - old fan explaining the attraction on a recent visit to Obihiro .
Sakae Katsumata , a 72 - year - old retired carpenter from Obihiro , has been coming to the races for 50 years .
“ This is the only race of its kind in the world , there ’s a chance to attract people from overseas , ” Katsumata said , adding that he had seen Chinese and Korean tourists at the track despite recent declines in visitor due to the coronavirus epidemic .
The virus has hit Hokkaido particularly hard , with the number of infected people the highest in Japan .
Authorities have asked ask residents to avoid outdoor activities .
Tours of the track ’s backyard and early morning training sessions have been suspended for weeks .
Races without spectators will continue until March 24 , when the track takes an annual one - month break , although online betting is still possible .
Looking ahead to June , Takumi Fujimoto , a 58 - year - old jockey , said he would jump at the chance to carry the Olympic torch on a sled pulled by a star of the Obihiro track .
“ Nothing specific has been decided yet , but if I ’m chosen , then , yes , I will do it , ” said Fujimoto .
“ This may never happen again . ”
Reporting by Ju - min Park ;
Editing by Antoni Slodkowski and Kenneth Maxwell

RPT-Market volatility puts pressure on prices in Australian M&A deals - sources .
2020-03-17 00:20:20 +00:00 .
( Repeats story with no changes to text )
By Paulina Duran and Scott Murdoch SYDNEY / HONG KONG , March 16 ( Reuters ) -
At least three Australian takeovers potentially worth a combined $ 1.2 billion are facing lower prices and contract conditions , three sources said , as financial market turmoil sparked by the coronavirus has made it difficult for advisers and bidders to put price tags on deals .
The rethinking on price comes as dealmakers had hoped Australia ’s relatively low number of coronavirus cases would leave it as a dealmaking sweetspot , while so many other Asia - Pacific economies , including China , the region ’s biggest driver of takeovers , were hit hard by the virus .
But stocks in Sydney have suffered as much as others .
On Monday , the benchmark ASX 200 sunk 9.7 % , its biggest one - day fall since 1987 .
Some bidders for Australian and New Zealand Banking Group ’s car lender UDC Finance and AMP ’s New Zealand wealth management business are lowering their offers and adding conditions due to the COVID-19 market chaos , two sources with knowledge of the deals said .
Australia ’s fourth largest bank and AMP , the country ’s biggest wealth manager , are in the middle of sale processes that once valued ANZ ’s equipment finance business at about NZ$660 million ( $ 477.8 million ) and AMP ’s NZ unit between NZ$300 - to - NZ$500 million .
Binding offers for the ANZ and AMP assets were due by Monday , one of the sources said .
Both processes were ongoing according to two people involved , who declined to comment on bid deadlines .
“ People are being very cautious , ” one of the sources said .
An A$ 780 million ( $ 481.65 million ) private equity battle for control of Village Roadshow , the owner of MovieWorld and SeaWorld theme parks and a cinema chain operator , is also expected to see lower pricing after its shares fell 47 % in the past three trading sessions to A$ 1.84 , two sources said .
BGH Capital had offered A$ 4 a share for the company in January , which trumped an earlier bid by Pacific Equity Partners ( PEP ) on Dec 19 of A$ 3.90 .
“ A lot of parties would be looking closely at their material adverse changes clauses in the contracts right now to see if they are able to pull the pin if things do not line up , ” a Sydney - based MA lawyer said .
Material adverse change clauses help buyer and seller to protect themselves against changes between bidding and a deal closing using mechanisms such as adjusting the price or potentially allowing one side to walk away .
The sources declined to be identified because they were not allowed to speak to media on the deals .
AMP , Village Roadshow , PEP , and BGH spokespeople all declined to comment .
ANZ did not return a request for comment .
$ 1 = 1.6458 New Zealand dollars $ 1 = 1.6207 Australian dollars
Reporting by Paulina Duran in Sydney and Scott Murdoch in Hong Kong ; Editing by Jennifer Hughes and Jane Merriman

UPDATE 2-Egypt's cuts interest rates by 300 basis points in face of coronavirus .
2020-03-16 17:55:41 +00:00 .
* Rates at lowest level since early 2016 * Egypt vulnerable due to tourism sector * Country closing schools , halting flights ( Adds details , analysis )
By Nadine Awadalla
CAIRO , March 16 ( Reuters ) - Egypt ’s central bank slashed its main interest rates by 300 basis points at an unscheduled meeting on Monday , saying it was making a “ preemptive ” move to support the economy in the face of the COVID-19 outbreak .
The bank ’s monetary policy committee cut the overnight lending rate to 10.25 % from 13.25 % and the overnight deposit rate to 9.25 % from 12.25 % .
Those are the lowest rates since early 2016 , before Egypt embarked on a three - year IMF - backed economic reform programme .
“ The MPC ’s preemptive decision provides appropriate support to domestic economic activity given the current challenging external environment , while the inflation outlook remains consistent with achieving the inflation target of 9 percent ( ±3 percentage points ) in 2020 Q4 , ” a statement from the central bank said .
“ The MPC will continue to closely monitor all economic developments and will not hesitate to adjust its stance to achieve its price stability mandate over the medium term . ”
The central bank ’s monetary policy committee had not been due to meet until April 2 to set interest rates .
It had held rates steady at its past two meetings after cutting them by 350 basis points between August and November last year .
Egypt has confirmed 150 cases of coronavirus , and three deaths .
Its economy is particularly vulnerable to the crisis due to its large tourism sector , analysts say .
On Monday the government announced that it would halt all air traffic at its airports from March 19 - 31 , a day after saying schools and universities would stay shut for two weeks to stop the spread of the virus .
“ The hit from the coronavirus outbreak is likely to mount in the coming weeks and months and , with inflation no longer a major concern for the CBE , more stimulus probably lies in store , ” said Jason Tuvey , senior emerging markets economist at Capital Economics .
Last year Egypt completed a three - year economic reform programme that won praise from economists , though the nation of 100 million has struggled to attract foreign investment or generate growth outside the hydrocarbons sector .
Year - on - year headline inflation spiked to as high as 33 % in 2017 before gradually falling back .
It slowed to 5.3 % in February from 7.2 % in January .
Even before the coronavirus crisis , analysts had argued for interest rate cuts to stimulate sluggish private sector growth .
“ This is unexpected but highly welcome and long overdue , ” said Allen Sandeep of Naeem Brokerage .
“ It comes in line with the trend globally , and follows signals from the ( U.S. ) Fed and even emerging economies like Brazil and Russia . ”
The cut is “ a brave move and very well placed ” said Radwa El - Swaify , head of research at Cairo - based Pharos .
“ It will support growth , the budget deficit , the manufacturing sector and the stock market performance , ” she said .
Writing by Ulf Laessing and Aidan Lewis
Editing by Catherine Evans and Chizu Nomiyama

Russia seen holding key rate at 6% on Friday amid coronavirus, low oil .
2020-03-16 14:01:37 +00:00 .
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) - Russia ’s central bank is expected to keep its key interest rate unchanged on Friday , putting its monetary easing cycle on hold after a rapid slump in the rouble amid mounting economic risks , a Reuters poll showed on Monday .
The Bank of Russia has cut six times in a row , but all 25 analysts and economists in the poll said the central bank would now leave the rate at 6 % .
The poll carried out on March 16 marked a shift in expectations - a survey in late February had suggested the bank would keep cutting .
[ nL5N2AS649 ]
The rouble has lost more than 14 percent of its value against the dollar this year RUBUTSTN = MCX in response to worries about the coronavirus and a rapid drop in prices of Russia ’s main export oil .
“ I expect the rate to remain unchanged in the conditions when inflationary risks are rising at the same time with risks of economic downturn , ” said Natalia Orlova , chief economist at Alfa Bank .
Consumer inflation in Russia was at 2.3 % in annual terms in February , below the central bank ’s 4 % target .
But the central bank warned recently that it saw significant risks of inflation picking up after the rouble sell - off .
First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov said on Monday Russia should not support demand artificially as there was a risk the rouble would fall further .
Recent rate cuts by major central banks , designed to prop up the global economy amid the spread of the coronavirus , had removed the need for an emergency rate hike in Russia , said Dmitry Polevoy , chief economist at the Russian Direct Investment Fund .
No rate hike was expected before the rate - setting meeting on March 20 unless there was a strong slide in the markets , said Vladimir Tikhomirov , chief economist at BCS Global Markets .
“ In our view , the USDRUB will need to rise at least to 80 on a sustainable basis for the CBR to start considering rate hikes , ” Citi analysts said .
Writing by Andrey Ostroukh ;
Editing by Andrew Heavens

UPDATE 2-S.Korea c.bank takes policy rate below 1% for first time with 50bp cut .
2020-03-16 11:14:56 +00:00 .
* BOK takes policy interest rate below 1 % for first time * BOK says rate cut to minimise risks from coronavirus
* BOK has not made a cut through emergency meeting since 2008 ( Recasts after Governor Lee ’s press conference )
By Cynthia Kim and Joori Roh SEOUL , March 16 ( Reuters )
-
The Bank of Korea slashed interest rates by 50 basis points on Monday in its largest policy easing since the global financial crisis , joining central banks from the United States to Japan in trying to soften the economic blow dealt by the coronavirus pandemic .
Convening an emergency meeting of its monetary policy board , BOK also lowered borrowing costs for the bank ’s cheap loan programs and relaxed collateral rules of its repurchasing operations , to ensure companies can easily and cheaply access credit .
“ We have put every viable policy option the BOK can take on table , although I ca n’t detail specifics now , ” Governor Lee Ju - yeol said after the seven - member panel cut the base rate to 0.75 % , the lowest since the bank adopted the current policy system in 1999 .
“ As uncertainties are high , we will closely monitor the FX swaps market and currency market . ”
The BOK has not made a cut in rates at an interim policy board meeting since October 2008 , when Asia ’s fourth largest economy was reeling from the global financial crisis .
The move to cut the seven - day repurchase rate comes after the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates to near zero on Sunday in another emergency move .
Central banks in New Zealand and Japan had also loosened their monetary stance after the Fed ’s action .
Asked how low rates could go , Governor Lee said it depended on financial and monetary policy conditions around the world .
Lee has previously said lowering rates too far could spark a massive capital outflow or a liquidity trap , undermining the goal of boosting the economy .
“ I ’d say it ( the BOK ) has used all its firepower to cut interest rates .
Do n’t see any further cuts coming for now , ” said Cho Yong - gu , fixed - income analyst at Shinyoung Securities .
Asia ’s fourth largest economy is battling the region ’s biggest outbreak of coronavirous outside China with more than 8,000 infections , increasing the risk of recession as consumers stay home , business activity dwindles , while exports suffer from falling demand abroad .
South Korea has been experiencing a downward trend in new cases , and Monday ’s 74 new infections are significantly lower than the peak of 909 new cases reported in a single day in late February .
The government has drawn up a $ 9.8 supplementary budget and declared the hardest hit provinces “ special disaster zones ” which will get subsidies and tax exemptions .
Onshore financial markets had closed by the time the BOK announced its rate decision .
The central bank cut rates in July and October last year .
Governor Lee said the bank ’s April 9 policy rate review meeting will be held as scheduled .
Editing by Toby Chopra
Simon Cameron - Moore

New York City, Los Angeles mayors order restaurants, bars, theaters closed for coronavirus .
2020-03-16 05:37:13 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
The mayors of New York City and Los Angeles , the two largest cities in the United States , on Sunday said they were ordering restaurants , theaters , bars and movie houses closed in an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus .
An empty restaurant is seen in the Manhattan borough following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in New York City , U.S. , March 15 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Jeenah Moon
Any restaurant , bar or cafe selling food will only be able to do so via delivery or take - out , officials said .
“ The virus can spread rapidly through the close interactions New Yorkers have in restaurants , bars and places where we sit close together , ” said New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio .
“ We have to break that cycle . ”
Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said Sunday night that he was also ordering gyms closed , too .
Both mayors said they were not making their decisions lightly .
“ These places are part of the heart and soul of our city .
They are part of what it means to be a New Yorker , ” de Blasio said .
“ But our city is facing an unprecedented threat , and we must respond with a wartime mentality . ”
De Blasio said his order would be in effect on Tuesday at 9 a.m.
In Los Angeles the restrictions would take effect at midnight on Sunday .
There was no word yet on how long the businesses in New York would remain closed - the mayor ’s office did not immediately respond to requests for detail .
Garcetti said Los Angeles businesses affected by his order must stay closed until March 31 , adding that he may extend the order .
More than 50,000 restaurants in New York were expected to shutter by Tuesday morning .
According to the National Restaurant Association , restaurants account for more than $ 51 billion in annual revenue and have more than 800,000 employees .
“ We will come through this , but until we do , we must make whatever sacrifices necessary to help our fellow New Yorkers , ” de Blasio said .
Before word of the mayor ’s order came out , a New York police cruiser was seen in the East Village neighborhood , a pillar of the city ’s night life scene , telling patrons of bars and restaurants to disperse and go home .
Several businesses closed up shop shortly afterward .
For restaurant owner Julio Pena , the New York City shutdown looks devastating .
Pena , who managed to keep his Il Posto Accanto restaurant open in the aftermath of 9/11 and Hurricane Sandy , does n’t know how he or other businesses will survive .
“ Throughout whatever situation we ’ve always opened , not only for staff and to pay the bills , but because the community needs us , ” he said .
Reporting by Leela de Krester in New York ; Additional reporting by Brad Brooks in Austin , Texas .
Editing by Gerry Doyle

New York City, Los Angeles mayors order restaurants, bars, theaters closed for coronavirus .
2020-03-16 03:49:37 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
The mayors of New York City and Los Angeles , the two largest cities in the United States , on Sunday said they were ordering restaurants , theaters , bars and movie houses closed in an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus .
An empty bar is pictured in the French Quarter neighborhood of New Orleans , Louisiana , U.S. March 15 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Jonathan Bachman
Any restaurant , bar or cafe selling food will only be able to do so via delivery or take - out , officials said .
“ The virus can spread rapidly through the close interactions New Yorkers have in restaurants , bars and places where we sit close together , ” said New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio .
“ We have to break that cycle . ”
Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said Sunday night that he was also ordering gyms closed , too .
Both mayors said they were not making their decisions lightly .
“ These places are part of the heart and soul of our city .
They are part of what it means to be a New Yorker , ” de Blasio said .
“ But our city is facing an unprecedented threat , and we must respond with a wartime mentality . ”
De Blasio said his order would be in effect on Tuesday at 9 a.m.
In Los Angeles the restrictions would take effect at midnight on Sunday .
There was no word yet on how long the businesses in New York would remain closed - the mayor ’s office did not immediately respond to requests for detail .
Garcetti said Los Angeles businesses affected by his order must stay closed until March 31 , adding that he may extend the order .
More than 50,000 restaurants in New York were expected to shutter by Tuesday morning .
According to the National Restaurant Association , restaurants account for more than $ 51 billion in annual revenue and have more than 800,000 employees .
“ We will come through this , but until we do , we must make whatever sacrifices necessary to help our fellow New Yorkers , ” de Blasio said .
Before word of the mayor ’s order came out , a New York police cruiser was seen in the East Village neighborhood , a pillar of the city ’s night life scene , telling patrons of bars and restaurants to disperse and go home .
Several businesses closed up shop shortly afterward .
For restaurant owner Julio Pena , the New York City shutdown looks devastating .
Pena , who managed to keep his Il Posto Accanto restaurant open in the aftermath of 9/11 and Hurricane Sandy , does n’t know how he or other businesses will survive .
“ Throughout whatever situation we ’ve always opened , not only for staff and to pay the bills , but because the community needs us , ” he said .
Reporting by Leela de Krester in New York ; Additional reporting by Brad Brooks in Austin , Texas .
Editing by Gerry Doyle

Last orders... Ireland closes all pubs on eve of St Patrick's Day .
2020-03-16 02:56:19 +00:00 .
DUBLIN ( Reuters ) - Ireland on Sunday said all bars in the country should close until at least the end of the month to curb the spread of coronavirus after videos of groups singing in packed Dublin venues sparked anger on social media .
Pub doors are locked in the Temple Bar area , as bars across Ireland close voluntarily to curb the spread of coronavirus , in Dublin , Ireland , March 15 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lorraine O'Sullivan
The government ’s move comes just two days before Ireland ’s national day , St Patrick ’s Day , which traditionally sees bars across the country packed from early in the day .
The annual parade celebrating the day had already been cancelled .
Ireland , known around the world for its traditional pubs , on Sunday said the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases had increased to 169 from 129 .
It closed schools and universities last week and advised people to cancel all indoor gatherings of 100 people or more .
But it stopped short of closing cafes , bars and restaurants , as some European countries have done , citing the potential impact on workers and small businesses and saying owners should ensure customers are kept at a safe distance from each other .
But showing packed bars with sing - alongs and crowded streets in Temple Bar , Dublin ’s busiest nightlife district , went viral on social media on Saturday under the # CloseThePubs hashtag .
One stag party , usually involving a group of men celebrating shortly before one their number gets married , was shown walking down the street in medical overalls and face masks .
Ireland ’s Health Minister Simon Harris , described the images of packed pubs as an insult to medical workers .
A number of pubs had announced voluntary closures , but on Sunday afternoon the government moved after a meeting with pub owners , and called on “ all public houses and bars ( including hotel bars ) to close from this evening until at least March 29 . ”
Publicans reported “ real difficulty in implementing ... guidelines on social distancing ... as pubs are specifically designed to promote social interaction in a situation where alcohol reduces personal inhibitions , ” the statement said .
Publican group the Licensed Vintners Association said 7,000 pubs would close , with 50,000 jobs affected .
The government called on people not to organise private parties for the same reason .
Twitter users praised the pubs that had closed voluntarily , with the DublinByPub.ie bar guide offering a list of responsible pubs “ to go on the lash in when this is all over . ”
Reporting by Conor Humphries ; Editing by Edmund Blair and Alexander Smith

More retailers shut stores to limit coronavirus spread .
2020-03-16 01:15:07 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
More major retailers said on Sunday they would shut stores in the United States to limit the spread of the coronavirus , including Nike , Under Armour , and Lululemon Athletica , a day after similar moves by several other U.S. retailers .
FILE PHOTO :
The Nike swoosh logo is pictured on a store in New York City , New York , U.S. , September 4 , 2018 .
REUTERS / Carlo Allegri / File Photo
The coronavirus , which has already caused schools to close and put an end to sports events in the United States , is likely to hit retailers ’ sales as virus - wary shoppers in Europe and the U.S. stay home .
Nike stores in Canada , Western Europe , Australia and New Zealand will be closed from March 16 to 27 , the sportswear giant said in a statement .
Its stores in South Korea , Japan , most of China and in many other countries , however , would continue their normal operations .
Under Armour said it would shutter all of its stores in North America from Monday for about two weeks , while Lululemon said its stores would be closed in North America and Europe for a similar period .
Nike and Lululemon operate more than 650 stores in U.S. , while Under Armour has nearly 190 stores in North America , according to the companies ’ latest annual reports .
Their online stores would continue to be available to shoppers .
America ’s top infectious disease expert Dr. Anthony Fauci warned Sunday that the conditions would likely get worse before they get better .
“ We are living in uncertain times and we ’re learning more about this virus every day , ” Lululemon said in a statement .
The coronavirus outbreak began in China but has spread around the world . COVID-19 , the disease caused by the virus , is a highly contagious respiratory illness .
Wisconsin - based apparel retailer Lands End Inc also said on Sunday it is closing all retail stores in the United States through March 29 .
“ We are taking additional steps in other Nike - managed facilities , including the option to work from home , ” it added .
Earlier this month Nike had temporarily closed its European headquarters in Netherlands after an employee was infected with the coronavirus .
Apparel retailer Urban Outfitters Inc , which owns brands including Anthropologie and Free People , said on Saturday it was closing all its consumer stores worldwide until at least March 28 .
However , retailers including Macy ’s Inc , Saks Fifth Avenue and Gap Inc ’s Banana Republic sent notices to shoppers last week saying they were open for business in a move to stem losses due to a steep drop in store traffic .
Reporting by Maria Ponnezhath and additional reporting by Ismail Shakil in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Edmund Blair , Lisa Shumaker and Diane Craft

Last orders... Ireland closes all pubs on eve of St Patrick's Day .
2020-03-15 19:28:01 +00:00 .
DUBLIN ( Reuters ) - Ireland on Sunday said all bars in the country should close until at least the end of the month to curb the spread of coronavirus after videos of groups singing in packed Dublin venues sparked anger on social media .
Pub doors are locked in the Temple Bar area of Dublin , as bars across Ireland close voluntarily to curb the spread of coronavirus , in Dublin , Ireland , March 15 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lorraine O'Sullivan
The government ’s move comes just two days before Ireland ’s national day , St Patrick ’s Day , which traditionally sees bars across the country packed from early in the day .
The annual parade celebrating the day had already been canceled .
Ireland , known around the world for its traditional pubs , on Sunday said the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases had increased to 169 from 129 .
It closed schools and universities last week and advised people to cancel all indoor gatherings of 100 people or more .
But it stopped short of closing cafes , bars and restaurants , as some European countries have done , citing the potential impact on workers and small businesses and saying owners should ensure customers are kept at a safe distance from each other .
But showing packed bars with sing - alongs and crowded streets in Temple Bar , Dublin ’s busiest nightlife district , went viral on social media on Saturday under the # CloseThePubs hashtag .
One stag party , usually involving a group of men celebrating shortly before one their number gets married , was shown walking down the street in medical overalls and face masks .
Ireland ’s Health Minister Simon Harris , described the images of packed pubs as an insult to medical workers .
A number of pubs had announced voluntary closures , but on Sunday afternoon the government moved after a meeting with pub owners , and called on “ all public houses and bars ( including hotel bars ) to close from this evening until at least March 29 . ”
Publicans reported “ real difficulty in implementing ... guidelines on social distancing ... as pubs are specifically designed to promote social interaction in a situation where alcohol reduces personal inhibitions , ” the statement said .
Publican group the Licensed Vintners Association said 7,000 pubs would close , with 50,000 jobs affected .
The government called on people not to organize private parties for the same reason .
Twitter users praised the pubs that had closed voluntarily , with the DublinByPub.ie bar guide offering a list of responsible pubs “ to go on the lash in when this is all over . ”
Reporting by Conor Humphries ; Editing by Edmund Blair and Alexander Smith

Israel's Arab coalition backs Netanyahu's rival Gantz .
2020-03-15 14:22:50 +00:00 .
JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) -
The main rival to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu won support from Israel ’s Arab coalition on Sunday to form a government , potentially undermining Netanyahu ’s plan to stay in power atop a proposed unity cabinet to fight the coronavirus outbreak .
FILE PHOTO :
A combination picture shows Benny Gantz , leader of Blue and White party , in Tel Aviv , Israel , November 23 , 2019 and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Kiryat Malachi , Israel March 1 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Corinna Kern , Amir Cohen / File Photo
After a third inconclusive election in less than a year left Netanyahu still three seats short of forming a majority , the prime minister has asked his main rival , general Benny Gantz , to agree to an “ emergency government ” to fight the global pandemic .
However , Gantz has so far been cool to the proposal , suggesting he could still try to form a minority government of his own , ousting Israel ’s longest - serving leader .
Speaking at a meeting with President Reuven Rivlin , who is holding discussions with parties on forming a new government , Joint List head Ayman Odeh said its voters had said “ an emphatic ‘ no ’ to a right - wing government and Benjamin Netanyahu ” .
The Joint List is now the third biggest party in the Israeli parliament , after achieving a record showing in the March 2 election .
Odeh called Netanyahu a “ serial inciter ” against Israel ’s Arab minority .
His coalition would not join a government led by Gantz , but could potentially provide it enough votes to govern .
About a fifth of Israeli citizens are Arabs - Palestinian by heritage but Israeli by citizenship .
But no Israeli government has ever included an Arab political party .
Netanyahu ’s Likud party denounced any such plans : “ While Netanyahu is handling a global and national crisis in the most responsible way , Gantz is racing to form a minority government depending on supporters of terror , ” the party said on Twitter .
With Netanyahu facing criminal charges in three corruption cases - his trial was supposed to start on Tuesday but was postponed until May 24 amid the health crisis - political rivals have cast doubt on his motives for proposing a unity cabinet .
Gantz has said Netanyahu did not appear to be sincere , having yet to send a negotiating team to Gantz ’s Blue and White party .
“ When you ’re serious , we ’ll talk , ” Gantz wrote .
Gantz ’s prospect of toppling Netanyahu could depend on former defense minister Avigdor Lieberman , who heads the far - right Yisrael Beiteinu party .
Lieberman , who was due to meet Rivlin later on Sunday , has balked at supporting a government backed by Arab legislators , accusing them of disloyalty to Israel .
But he has also called for Netanyahu to leave power while under indictment .
Netanyahu , 70 , has the pledged backing of 58 members of parliament , three short of a ruling majority in the 120 - seat Knesset .
He has denied any wrongdoing in the investigations .
Charges against him include bribery , breach of trust and fraud .
( This story corrects name of Arab political group to Joint List coalition throughout ) .
Writing by Jeffrey Heller ;
Editing by Maayan Lubell , Kirsten Donovan and Peter Graff

UPDATE 2-Romanian lawmakers endorse PM Orban in vote of confidence .
2020-03-14 17:52:17 +00:00 .
BUCHAREST ( Reuters ) - Romania ’s centrist Prime Minister Ludovic Orban won a parliamentary vote of confidence by a large margin as expected on Saturday , with all parties seeking to end a political stalemate and focus on reining in the spread of coronavirus .
FILE PHOTO :
Romania 's Prime Minister Ludovic Orban listens during a panel discussion at the annual Munich Security Conference in Germany February 16 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Andreas Gebert On Saturday , President Klaus Iohannis declared a state of emergency from Monday , opening the door to more government aid to combat the disease .
“ This state of emergency will enable allotting new important resources to fight the crisis , ” Iohannis said .
“ The government will allot more funds for .... healthcare , medicine , equipment , ” he said , adding that the move also cut through red tape for government purchases .
Lawmakers toppled Orban ’s minority Liberal government early last month but he has continued running the country on an interim basis with limited powers .
Iohannis asked the interim premier to form a government on Friday .
Orban and his cabinet ministers quarantined themselves for two weeks on Friday , after coming into contact with a coronavirus - infected lawmaker .
The country has recorded 102 cases of the illness so far , but no deaths .
“ It ’s been 286 votes for the government out of 309 cast ballots and 23 MPs voted against it , ” a senior ruling party deputy told Reuters of Saturday ’s vote .
Since the vote against Orban ’s government in February , rival parties have been jockeying for position before municipal and parliament elections in June and November , respectively .
But the onset of the coronavirus meant Orban ’s nomination passed easily through parliament - restoring full powers to his government to fight the outbreak .
“ Our party has taken full responsibility at these difficult times , and now , with a full power government , I ’m confident we will manage to rein in coronavirus more resolutely , ” Orban said in an online speech .
On Saturday , Romania increased restrictions on the public , banning cultural , scientific , religious activities involving more than 50 people in a closed space , down from 100 at present .
Additional reporting by Luiza Ilie ; Editing by Edmund Blair and
Frances Kerry

Prioritise domestic leagues over Euro 2020, UEFA urged .
2020-03-14 16:49:32 +00:00 .
MANCHESTER , England ( Reuters ) - UEFA is being urged to prioritise domestic competitions in the wake of the coronavirus , with pressure growing for Euro 2020 to be postponed .
FILE PHOTO :
UEFA Euro 2020 mascot Skillzy poses for a photo with the official match ball at Olympiapark in Munich , Germany , March 3 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Andreas Gebert Top - flight football across Europe has ground to a halt as a result of the spread of the coronavirus , with national and continental club competitions suspended or postponed .
Representatives of European clubs and leagues will join national federations on an emergency video - conference call on Tuesday .
The 24 - team Euro 2020 tournament , scheduled to be held in 12 countries from June 12 - July 12 , could be pushed back a year which would create a longer window for national leagues to finish their seasons .
Multiple sources have told Reuters that the meeting will hear demands that plans for the eventual resumption of play should focus on completing national leagues above concerns about the Champions League , Europa League and the Euro 2020 tournament .
The European Leagues body , which represents the national competitions , will be on the call and issued a statement on Friday saying “ it is most essential that domestic competitions can be completed this season , to limit the negative impact for the entire football ecosystem .
“ This crisis is also causing very serious sporting and financial consequences to all parties involved in the game .
We are ready to cooperate with UEFA and other stakeholders to find common solutions to all these issues in a constructive way , including the international club competitions and Euro 2020 . ”
One football federation official said “ all options are on the table ” for the meeting and another source said those options include one - legged ties for the remainder of the Champions League and Europa League games to halve the fixture load .
Answering a call from Olympique Lyonnais president Jean - Michel Aulas ’s for a ‘ null and void ’ Ligue 1 season , French League ( LFP ) executive general director Didier Quillot said he had all clubs ’ interests at heart , explaining that “ there is the possibility to play every three days until June 30 ” .
The focus on completing domestic competitions reflects a concern that clubs throughout Europe will lose significant ticket and associated match - day revenue by not completing the season while still having to pay player salaries .
There is also the added complication that incomplete seasons would raise questions over qualification for next season ’s Champions League and Europa League competitions , with eligible teams scheduled to begin qualifying matches from June 23 .
Euro 2020 already faces the problem that the remaining qualifying playoffs for the tournament , with 16 nations battling for four places , are scheduled for March 26 and 31 .
FIFA has recommended that all international games in that period be postponed .
FIFA have also said that the rules which normally oblige clubs to release players for national team matches will not apply for the up - coming international windows in March / April .
Several of the teams involved in those games have already asked for postponements and the matches would be not be viable without club co - operation .
UEFA is expected to take a decision on or before Tuesday ’s meeting .
Reporting by Simon Evans , additional reporting by Brian Homewood in Bern , Switzerland and Julien Pretot in Paris ; editing by
Tony Lawrence

Indonesia transport minister confirmed to have coronavirus as cases climb .
2020-03-14 16:30:05 +00:00 .
JAKARTA ( Reuters ) - Indonesian Transport Minister Budi Karya Sumadi has been hospitalised in Jakarta after he contracted coronavirus , a government official said on Saturday , the most high - profile case so far to be confirmed in the Southeast Asian country .
FILE PHOTO - Indonesia 's Transport Minister Budi Karya Sumadi gestures during the inauguration of newly appointed ministers at the Merdeka Palace in Jakarta , Indonesia , October 23 , 2019 .
Picture taken October 23 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Willy Kurniawan
Earlier on Saturday , Jakarta ’s governor said the city will close all schools for at least two weeks to curb the spread of coronavirus , as the first cases were also reported in other parts of the archipelago .
Indonesia , the world ’s fourth most populous country , reported on Saturday 27 more coronavirus cases , bringing the total confirmed infections to 96 and deaths to five .
Sumadi ’s family had given approval for the announcement after the minister had been on “ the front line and a very important part of containing the impact of COVID-19 ” , Pratikno , who is state secretary in charge of administrative support for the office of president , told a news conference .
The condition of Sumadi , 63 , who had attended a cabinet meeting on Wednesday , was showing an improvement , said Albertus Budi Sulistya , deputy head of the Gatot Soebroto Hospital .
“ He was initially being treated for other illnesses in a private hospital until he had difficulty breathing , then some medical equipment had to be brought in , ” said Sulistya .
The health ministry had conducted some tracing of people Sumadi had recently met and “ would immediately begin testing as required ” , said Pratikno , who uses one name .
The transport minister had sat in a room with number of ministers and the army head during the cabinet meeting earlier this week , which was also attended by President Joko Widodo .
CASES ACROSS ARCHIPELAGO
While most confirmed coronavirus cases have been clustered in Jakarta , cases were also reported on Saturday in cities in western and central Java , Manado on Sulawesi island and Pontianak on Borneo island .
“ We must massively , in an integrated way and without panic , search and find and isolate positive cases , ” health ministry official Achmad Yurianto told a news briefing .
Doni Monardo , who leads Indonesia ’s task force on coronavirus , said testing will be increased and struggling medical staff will be assisted by medical students and volunteers .
As he announced school closures , Jakarta Governor Anies Baswedan said cases had been detected in many parts of the city of 10 million people .
“ What must be done right now is to reduce interactions between residents , ” Baswedan said , urging people to stay at home and not travel unless necessary .
Indonesia confirmed its first cases of the virus only last week while some countries in the region had reported scores of cases far earlier , raising concerns among medical experts about infections either not being reported or going undetected .
The central government has faced criticism for withholding information regarding the spread of the virus .
Additional reporting by Gayatri Suroyo and Maikel Jefriando ; Writing by Ed Davies ;
Editing by Catherine Evans

India suspends domestic soccer and cricket over coronavirus outbreak .
2020-03-14 12:23:20 +00:00 .
NEW DELHI ( Reuters ) - India suspended domestic soccer until the end of this month while domestic cricket was put on hold indefinitely due to the coronavirus on Saturday .
A policeman walks past a logo of the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) during a governing council meeting of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) at BCCI headquarters in Mumbai April 26 , 2010 .
REUTERS /
Arko Datta / Files
The All India Football Federation ( AIFF ) said in a statement that , following Ministry of Health and state government - level advice , “ all footballing activities under the aegis of AIFF stay suspended till March 31 ” .
“ The AIFF will take a stock of the situation in the last week of March , and take a decision abiding by directives from relevant authorities at that juncture , ” it added .
All I - League matches have also been suspended but the final of the franchise - based Indian Super League was due to go ahead without spectators in Goa later on Saturday .
The outbreak has already cost India its only European Tour golf event , a shooting World Cup and a BWF Super 500 badminton tournament .
India ’s ongoing home ODI series against South Africa has been called off by the cricket board which has also postponed the start of this year ’s Indian Premier League ( IPL )
Twenty20 until April 15 .
In a statement on Saturday , Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) suspended all domestic matches as well “ till further notice . ”
Some 145,594 people have been infected by the coronavirus across the world and 5,419 have died , according to a Reuters tally of government announcements .
Efforts to curb the spread of the pandemic have widely disrupted the global sports calendar .
BCCI representatives also met IPL franchise owners in Mumbai where safety and well - being of the fans and players were identified as the priority .
“ As much as we all want IPL to happen the health and safety of the public , players , staff and all others is of paramount importance , ” Delhi Capitals co - owner Parth Jindal tweeted after the meeting .
Reporting by Amlan Chakraborty in New Delhi ; editing by Tony Lawrence

India suspends domestic soccer and cricket over coronavirus outbreak .
2020-03-14 12:13:41 +00:00 .
NEW DELHI , March 14 ( Reuters ) - India suspended domestic soccer until the end of this month while domestic cricket was put on hold indefinitely due to the coronavirus on Saturday .
The All India Football Federation said in a statement that , following Ministry of Health and state government - level advice , “ all footballing activities under the aegis of AIFF stay suspended till March 31 ” .
“ The AIFF will take a stock of the situation in the last week of March , and take a decision abiding by directives from relevant authorities at that juncture , ” it added .
All I - League matches have also been suspended but the final of the franchise - based Indian Super League was due to go ahead without spectators in Goa later on Saturday .
The outbreak has already cost India its only European Tour golf event , a shooting World Cup and a BWF Super 500 badminton tournament .
India ’s ongoing home ODI series against South Africa has been called off by the cricket board which has also postponed the start of this year ’s Indian Premier League ( IPL )
Twenty20 until April 15 .
In a statement on Saturday , Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) suspended all domestic matches as well “ till further notice . ”
Some 145,594 people have been infected by the coronavirus across the world and 5,419 have died , according to a Reuters tally of government announcements .
Efforts to curb the spread of the pandemic have widely disrupted the global sports calendar .
BCCI representatives also met IPL franchise owners in Mumbai where safety and well - being of the fans and players were identified as the priority .
“ As much as we all want IPL to happen the health and safety of the public , players , staff and all others is of paramount importance , ” Delhi Capitals co - owner Parth Jindal tweeted after the meeting .
( Reporting by Amlan Chakraborty in New Delhi ;
editing by Tony Lawrence )

Philippine capital plans curfew as coronavirus deaths, infection tally spike .
2020-03-14 10:12:53 +00:00 .
MANILA ( Reuters ) - Manila announced nighttime curfews on Saturday and urged shopping malls to close for one month , in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus , as the Philippines reported its eighth death and the largest single - day increase in confirmed cases .
Passengers wear protective masks while waiting at the Araneta Center Bus Terminal in Cubao , Quezon City , Philippines , March 13 , 2020 , following President Rodrigo Duterte 's announcement of a local travel ban in the Philippine capital .
REUTERS /
Adrian Portugal The Philippines ’ health department on Saturday confirmed three new fatalities , including a patient in southern Philippines , bringing the total number of deaths to eight .
It also reported 34 new confirmed cases , bringing the total to 98 .
Details of the new cases are being validated and authorities are verifying reports of more infections , Health Assistant Secretary Maria Rosario Vergeire told a news conference .
President Rodrigo Duterte has raised the country ’s health emergency status to the highest level and issued quarantine measures in the capital , home to at least 12 million people .
He also issued land and air travel restrictions to and from the capital on Thursday that will take effect on March 15 , and extended school closures to April 12 .
The measures in the Philippine capital , if implemented fully , would be among the strictest in Asia , and come as European countries and the United States battle to contain a pandemic that has killed more than 5,000 worldwide .
“ To limit the spread of the virus , we need to limit the movement of people .
We are slowing down the movement of people in Metro Manila , ” Jose Arturo Garcia , general manager of the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority , told a news conference .
Some of the capital ’s residents flocked to bus stations and airports ahead of the travel ban that will start Sunday .
The nighttime curfew will take effect on March 15 to April 14 , but some employees will be exempt , Garcia said .
He said people who violated the curfew would be turned back , but would not be reprimanded or arrested .
Mayors will issue local ordinances for the temporary closure of malls and establishments , exempting shops offering essential services like groceries , banks and pharmacies .
The capital is home to sprawling shopping malls , some of which are among the largest in the world .
Reporting by Neil Jerome Morales ;
Editing by Michael Perry and Richard Pullin

UPDATE 2-Ireland cautions citizens about travel to other EU states .
2020-03-13 23:21:39 +00:00 .
* Ireland advice on travel to the United Kingdom unchanged * Health service has spoken to hotels about emergency beds
* No kissing : virus puts Ireland ’s Blarney Stone off limits ( Releads on advice on travel to other EU member states )
By Padraic Halpin DUBLIN , March 13 ( Reuters ) - Ireland advised its citizens on Friday to exercise a high degree of caution before deciding to travel to the rest of the European Union due to the spread of the coronavirus and restrictions other members states had put in place .
Ireland shut schools , universities and childcare facilities until at least March 29 on Friday and restricted mass gathering to slow the spread of the virus .
The number of confirmed cases rose to 90 from 70 on Thursday .
Ireland had previously only urged against all travel to Italy and advised avoiding non - essential travel to China , Iran and Spain .
The World Health Organization said on Friday that Europe had become the epicentre of the pandemic .
“ In light of rapidly changing conditions and restrictions across a number of EU countries , my department is now advising people to exercise ‘ a high degree of caution ’ before deciding to travel to other EU States , ” Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said on Twitter .
Coveney said in a separate tweet that the updated advice does not apply to neighbouring Britain , a former EU member .
Ireland shares an open border with the smaller British - run region of Northern Ireland , which has so far reported 29 cases .
Ireland ’s health service provision chief earlier said that the country ’s contingency plans to fight the coronavirus if the outbreak becomes significantly worse includes seeking additional bed capacity in hotels .
The Health Service Executive ( HSE ) had received “ significant offers ” from the hotel sector , Paul Reid told a news conference , adding that he did not envisage having to go to such lengths to boost its capacity .
The hospitality sector is operating below capacity since the collapse of travel as a result of the global pandemic .
The kissing of the County Cork ’s Blarney Stone , one of Ireland ’s oldest tourist traditions , was also suspended for the first time in its more than 200 - year history on Friday due to the outbreak , the owners of Blarney Castle said in a statement .
On Monday , Ireland cancelled all St. Patrick ’s Day parades which draw hundreds of thousands of revellers each March .
The new curbs in Ireland sent shoppers rushing to supermarkets for the second straight day despite government pleas not to panic buy and left large parts of Dublin deserted .
Daily trips on public transport across the country were down 15 - 20 % in recent days , the National Transport Authority said .
( Editing by Frances Kerry , Chizu Nomiyama and Daniel Wallis )

EU's draft new deal envisages close ties with Brexit Britain .
2020-03-13 13:23:57 +00:00 .
BRUSSELS ( Reuters ) -
The European Union ’s new deal with Brexit Britain envisages a tight trade and security relationship , according to a draft seen by Reuters on Friday , despite London saying it is seeking looser ties .
FILE PHOTO :
European Union flags fly outside the European Commission headquarters in Brussels , Belgium , February 19 , 2020 .
Picture taken February 19 , 2020 REUTERS /
Yves Herman Britain left the EU in January and is in negotiations with the bloc over a new partnership to take effect after a status - quo transition period runs its course at the end of the year .
The draft , prepared by the bloc ’s executive Commission before a second round of talks next week , includes a reference to so - called “ level playing field ” provisions to ensure fair competition by keeping rules aligned , which London rejects .
“ The Parties recognise that the establishment of conditions that ensure a level playing field between the Parties is necessary for trade and investment , ” the 441 - page draft read .
On fisheries , another contentious point between the estranged allies , it envisages reciprocal access to waters .
Negotiations would be held each year by Dec. 10 on fishing opportunities for the following year .
In case of trade disruptions , the bloc would be allowed to impose protective measures as soon as 15 days after notifying Britain , it also read .
The draft comes with an accompanying 17 pages of a proposed new partnership on “ foreign policy , security and defence ” , which recognises , however , that “ the United Kingdom has expressed clearly that it does not wish to engage ” in such negotiations .
While the EU is pushing to keep Britain in close touch from 2021 , Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said he is prepared to default to World Trade Organization rules , which include tariffs and quotas , if London and the bloc are unable to seal a deal .
Johnson also demands that Britain leave the jurisdiction of the EU ’s top court .
The EU draft envisages an arbitration panel to resolve disputes with Britain , but says the panel must be bound by rulings on EU law by the European Court of Justice .
Britain has said it would present its own draft of the future deal before the second round , which is due to start on March 18 .
Face - to - face talks have now been cancelled because of the coronavirus epidemic .
“ We are looking at how the discussions can take place using an alternative forum such as video conferencing , ” a spokesman for Johnson said on Friday .
Additional reporting by Eliabeth Piper , Writing by Gabriela Baczynska ;
Editing by Catherine Evans , Chizu Nomiyama and Peter Graff

The wrong time to go bust: investors wary of distressed Lebanon debt .
2020-03-13 11:44:10 +00:00 .
BEIRUT , March 13 ( Reuters ) -
With distressed debt investors and emerging markets funds suddenly faced with one of the sharpest asset price falls in a generation , Lebanon picked the wrong time to go bankrupt .
Funds are still circling as the clock ticks down on Lebanon ’s first sovereign default , but some may not buy until after the government unveils plans to revamp the debt and reform its economy , and the dust settles on a global asset plunge .
More than $ 450 million of the debt has been traded since the government said at the weekend it could not meet its foreign currency debt , MarketAxess data showed .
Lebanon is on a path to default when the grace period for its $ 1.2 billion Eurobond expires on Monday .
Hedge funds and distressed debt funds were among the buyers this week , two financial sources familiar with the matter said .
Their purchases add a risk of uncertainty to Lebanon ’s debt restructuring process , given the record of some in that industry pursuing legal action in other countries in dire straits , such as Argentina and Venezuela .
But it could also potentially help smooth the process along if those buying are motivated to secure a consensual restructuring deal , said one of the financial sources .
Some funds and existing holders of the debt say they ’re waiting for information on the likely scale of the haircut on the debt and concrete plans on areas like rescuing the banking sector and reforming the energy and telecom sectors .
“ There ’s been a default and bonds are a lot cheaper but there ’s still a lot of uncertainty as we still need to know what they will do with the banking sector , depositor haircuts and currency , ” said Richard House , CIO emerging market debt , Allianz Global Investors , which is considering buying .
Other investors are steering clear for now , as long as there is so much global uncertainty following this week ’s coronavirus - inspired oil price war and asset price falls .
“ We are looking at it but not involved , ” said Alberto Gallo , head of macro strategies at Algebris Investments , a London - based hedge fund that exited positions in Lebanon and Argentina before both got into distress .
“ At 25 cents in normal circumstances we would buy it as we like the country , but in the current market there are a lot of other credits that have come down in price .
What will make us more positive is if there ’s a clear plan and if the oil price war calms down a bit . ”
Finance minister Ghazi Wazni said on Thursday that Lebanon ’s plan to tackle its crisis will meet IMF recommendations and will be ready to be presented to creditors in weeks .
More of the debt could change hands in the coming weeks once holders decide whether to crystallise losses from the default or ride it out to see if recovery values improve .
The dollar bonds are currently trading generally below 25 cents to the dollar , with the March 2020 issue having shed more than half its value in the past week .
A total of $ 239.6 million of the debt was traded on Monday , according to MarketAxess data , the highest in several weeks , but still short of levels reached earlier this year when local banks , which hold the largest chunk of the debt , sold some of their holdings to foreign funds .
Distressed debt veterans Greylock Capital and Switzerland - base Mangart Advisors have begun organising talks between some bond holders and other interested investors .

UPDATE 1-Nepal closes Mount Everest for climbers because of coronavirus fears .
2020-03-13 11:21:34 +00:00 .
KATHMANDU ( Reuters ) - Nepal has closed all of its Himalayan peaks including Mount Everest this climbing season because of fears of the coronavirus outbreak , a government minister said on Friday .
FILE PHOTO :
Light illuminates Mount Everest ( C ) during sunset in Solukhumbu district , also known as the Everest region , in this picture taken November 30 , 2015 .
REUTERS /
Navesh Chitrakar Nepal , home to eight of the world ’s 14 highest mountains including Mount Everest , earns about $ 4.4 million a year in permit fees from climbers aiming to scale the world ’s highest peak and other mountains .
Tourism Minister Yogesh Bhattarai said expeditions to all peaks in the March - May spring season had been suspended .
“ Climbing this season has been closed , ” Bhattarai told Reuters .
Asked if the closure was because of the coronavirus , he said : “ It is as a precaution for that . ”
Nepal has confirmed just one case of the coronavirus - a student studying in China on a trip home - out of 450 people tested .
The suspension of expeditions in Nepal will affect hundreds of foreign climbers now preparing for the spring season , a window or relatively good weather between the end of the bitterly cold winter and the rainy season , which begins in June .
Everest rises to a height of 8,850 meters ( 29,035 feet ) on the border between Nepal and the Chinese region of Tibet .
China announced the closure of its side of the mountain on Thursday .
It is the second time in recent years that the climbing season has been disrupted .
Expeditions were suspended in 2015 after a major earthquake struck Nepal on April 25 that year , killing some 9,000 people .
Eighteen people were killed at the Everest base camp when an avalanche triggered by the quake roared down a slope .
“ This is disappointing news for both our expedition leaders and our clients who have trained for months for this year ’s climb , ” said Lukas Furtenbach , of the California - based guiding company Furtenbach Adventure .
BIG LOSS Adrian Ballinger of the Alpenglow Expeditions company said he understood the decision .
“ While cancelling a climb is never an outcome we want , this time , it ’s the responsible thing to do , ” Ballinger said in a statement .
“ A COVID-19 outbreak at base camp would be dangerous and potentially devastating , ” he said .
Nepali expedition operators said the cancellation of all climbing expeditions would not only mean no permit fees for the government but the loss of income to hiking agencies , sherpa guides , porters and support staff .
Many porters and guides rely on the short climbing season for their annual income and support families for the year on the earnings .
Nepal has more than 400 mountain peaks open to foreign climbers .
A permit for Everest costs $ 11,000 but Dambar Parajuli , president of the Expedition Operators ’ Association ( EOA ) , said a foreign climber hoping to climb Everest spends up to $ 60,000 in all , on the permit , wages for guides , porters , kitchen staff , transport , hotels and food .
Last year , 381 climbers went to climb Everest .
“ The financial cost of the cancellation has n’t been calculated but it ’s a very huge amount , ” Parajuli told Reuters .
Indian mountaineer Debashish Biswas had planned an expedition to Everest this spring to mark the 10th anniversary of his first ascent .
“ This is a big setback , ” Biswas said Nepal would also stop issuing visas on arrival until April 30 , an official said .
Reporting by Gopal Sharma ; additional reporting by Abhirup Roy in Mumbai ; Editing by Sanjeev Miglani ,
Robert Birsel

OPEC+ deal collapse, virus double whammy to keep oil in $30s range - Reuters poll .
2020-03-13 11:06:08 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Oil prices are set to languish near current lows in coming months as the collapse of a deal among major producers to curb output hammers a market already reeling from falling demand due to the coronavirus , a Reuters survey showed on Friday .
FILE PHOTO :
The logo of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) sits outside its headquarters ahead of the OPEC and NON - OPEC meeting in Vienna , Austria , July 2 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Lisi Niesner / File Photo Analysts in the snap poll slashed their forecasts of Brent crude prices LCOc1 to $ 42 a barrel on average this year versus the $ 60.63 consensus in the February monthly poll .
The global benchmark is expected to average about $ 34.87 in the second quarter and $ 39.05 in Q3 , before regaining some ground to $ 44.08 in the final quarter .
The survey of 21 analysts forecast U.S. crude CLc1 will average $ 30.37 per barrel in Q2 and about $ 37 for the year .
“ The end of OPEC+ was long overdue and lower prices are here to stay at the very least for the next couple of quarters .
Both Brent and West Texas Intermediate crude will need to get used to sub-$30 oil prices , ” said Edward Moya , a senior market analyst at broker OANDA .
Crude futures plunged over 30 % at one point on Monday , the largest one - day slide since the 1991 Gulf War , after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies including Russia , known as OPEC+ , failed to agree an extension to their output cuts .
[ O / R ]
In a resultant Saudi - Russian price war and race for market share , Saudi Arabia slashed the official selling price for its crude grades to all destinations and plans record production in April .
( Graphic : Saudi slashes April oil prices to all destinations - here )
“ Its ( Saudi ’s ) move to raise production and offer crude oil at deep discounts is an attempt to punish and pressure Russia while at the same time squeezing the U.S. shale industry and many other high - cost producers , ” said Florent Pelé from Societe Generale .
U.S. shale producers , meanwhile , rushed to deepen spending cuts and reduce future production .
The OPEC+ deal collapse added to concerns of demand being squeezed by the rapid global spread of the coronavirus pandemic , which has paralyzed supply chains and triggered a rout in financial markets .
Global oil demand is expected to mark its first quarterly decline for the first time since 2009 , with most analysts predicting a drop of anywhere between 0.8 million barrels per day ( mbpd ) and 4 mbpd in the first half of 2020 .
For the year , a modest demand growth of 0.1 - 0.5 mbpd is expected .
“ The prognosis for the oil market is even more dire than in November 2014 , when such a price war last started , as it comes to a head with the signiﬁcant collapse in oil demand due to the coronavirus , ” Goldman Sachs said in a note .
( Graphic : Analysts cut oil price forecasts for 2020 - here )
Reporting by Swati Verma in Bengaluru ; editing by Arpan Varghese and
Emelia Sithole - Matarise

SE Asia Stocks-Poised for worst week in over a decade as virus panic worsens .
2020-03-13 04:42:44 +00:00 .
* Singapore enters bear market territory * Philippines set for worst week since 1998 * Thailand , Indonesia trigger circuit breakers
By Sameer Manekar March 13 ( Reuters ) - Southeast Asian stock markets sank on Friday and were headed for their worst week in more than a decade , as a rout in global equities deepened amid rising travel restrictions and growing fears of a global recession due to the coronavirus outbreak .
Sell - off gathered pace from Thursday after the World Health Organization termed the outbreak a pandemic and U.S. President Donald Trump restricted travel from Europe to contain the virus spread .
Broader Asian equities were also pounded after all three U.S. indexes crashed overnight , ending their record bull run .
"
It 's a chain reaction , a vicious cycle , " said Joel Ng , an analyst at KGI Securities , adding that markets were coming to terms with the possibility of a synchronised global recession .
" There are a lot of expectations that central banks and governments would step in , however , the problem is that there is an absence of global coordination , unlike in 2008 , " he added .
Thailand and Indonesian shares fell 10 % and 5 % , respectively , at one point , triggering circuit breakers for the second time in as many days .
Export - reliant Singapore shares hit their lowest since July 2009 , entering bear market territory - down up to 23.5 % since a Jan. 17 peak , and were on track for their worst week since October 2008 .
Financials and industrial sectors were the worst hit , with DBS Group Holdings and industrial conglomerate Jardine
Strategic Holdings losing as much as 6 % and 10.2 % , respectively .
Thai shares were poised for a record weekly loss , losing 26.5 % .
Blue - chip firms PTT Pcl and Airports of Thailand were down 8.7 % and 10 % , respectively .
Malaysian shares marked their steepest drop since March 2008 on Friday , losing nearly 7 % to the lowest since September 2011 .
Heavyweight firms Malayan Banking and electricity generator Tenaga Nasional slipped 3.9 % and 10.5 % , respectively .
Indonesian shares fell more than 5 % and were set for their biggest weekly drop since October 2008 .
Philippine stocks plunged more than 11 % , their most since October 2008 , and were headed for their biggest weekly loss since 1998 .
Meanwhile , the country 's finance minister ordered state pension funds to increase their daily investments to support the stock market .
Vietnam stocks slumped nearly 6 % , hitting their lowest since May 2017 .
For Asian Companies click ; SOUTHEAST ASIAN STOCK MARKETS as at 0345 GMT Change on the day Market Current
Previous close
Pct Move Singapore
2541.78 2678.64 -5.11 Bangkok 1005.43 1114.91
-9.82 Manila 5404.71 5736.27
-5.78 Jakarta 4644.319
4895.748 -5.14 Kuala Lumpur 1326.56 1419.43
-6.54 Ho Chi Minh 736.79 769.25 -4.22 Change so far in 2020
Market Current
End 2019 Pct Move Singapore
2541.78 3222.83
-21.13
Bangkok 1005.43 1579.84 -36.36
Manila 5404.71 7,815.26 -30.84
Jakarta
4644.319
6,299.54 -26.28
Kuala Lumpur 1326.56 1588.76
-16.50
Ho Chi Minh 736.79 960.99 -23.33 ( Reporting by Sameer Manekar in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Subhranshu Sahu )

As Trump's stock market gains shrink, he says it will 'work out fine' .
2020-03-12 20:57:56 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
For three years , U.S. President Donald Trump has touted a stunning run - up in the stock market as evidence of his success in the White House .
In the space of three weeks , most of those gains have evaporated .
FILE PHOTO :
U.S. President Donald Trump delivers remarks to the news media during a meeting with bankers on COVID-19 coronavirus response , inside the Cabinet Room at the White House in Washington , U.S. , March 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Tom Brenner / File Photo
As the coronavirus pandemic spreads fear of a recession , the stock market ’s rise under the Republican president , a major part of his case for reelection in November , is now less than half of the gain of his predecessor and rival Barack Obama at the same point in his presidency .
At its peak on Feb. 19 , the SP 500 .SPX was up 58 % from when Trump unexpectedly beat Democratic rival Hillary Clinton in November 2016 .
As of Thursday , Trump 's stock market was up just 17 % .
The SP 500 gained 41 % in same number of days after Obama was elected president in 2008 .
Measuring from Trump ’s inauguration on Jan 20 , 2017 , the SP 500 is now up less than 10 % , compared to a gain of 70 % under Obama during the same span of his first term .
( Graphic : The Trump Slump - here )
Trump , who has repeatedly boasted on Twitter and to reporters of the stock market ’s performance in recent years , on Thursday played down the carnage wracking Wall Street .
“ We have a lot of things that we ’re working on with the financial markets , and it ’s going to work out fine , ” Trump told reporters .
“ You have to remember the stock market , as an example , is still much higher than when I got here .
And it ’s taken a big hit , but it ’s going to all bounce back , and it ’s going to bounce back very big at the right time . ”
The Dow Jones Industrial Average .DJI tumbled nearly 10 % on Thursday , its worst day since 1987 after Trump announced a sweeping move to restrict travel from Europe .
SP 500 futures tumbled late on Wednesday , seconds after he announced the travel ban in a televised address .
As fears grew that Washington has not done enough to prepare for the growing pandemic , the SP 500 on Thursday sank another 9.5 % in a dramatic end to a bull market that started during Obama ’s presidency in the aftermath of the financial crisis , and that lasted 11 years .
In the early months of Trump ’s first term , Wall Street , led by banks , surged on expectations that Republicans would slash regulations , a promise Trump fulfilled .
Later gains were driven by historic tax cuts that freed up money for companies to spend on dividends and stock buybacks , which reached record levels .
As of Monday , the recent sell - off had cost the average person in the United States about $ 16,000 , mostly through retirement plans and not accounting for wealth disparities , according to a study .
Writing by Noel Randewich , reporting by Steve Holland in Washington ,
additional reporting by David Brunnstrom , editing by Megan Davies , Nick Zieminski and Cynthia Osterman

Credit woes heap more pain on high-yield U.S. bonds .
2020-03-12 20:06:28 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) - High - yield U.S. bonds suffered more pain on Thursday as major junk bond exchange - traded funds fell to the lowest level since February 2016 and an index for credit insurance protecting against exposure to junk bonds widened to a nine - year high .
Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) in New York , U.S. , March 12 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Brendan McDermid
Investors are increasingly concerned the coronavirus outbreak will hit U.S. corporate cash flow if it keeps workers at home or prevents companies from paying employees .
The Markit high - yield credit - default swap index CDXHY5Y = MG - widely used as a gauge of sentiment about high - yield debt - surged to its highest since November 2011 .
The price of the SPDR Bloomberg Barclays High Yield Bond ETF fell to the lowest since February 2016 ( JNK.P ) , as did the iShares iBoxx High Yield Corporate Bond ETF ( HYG.P ) .
Closed - end high - yield bond funds also fell on Thursday , notching far larger moves than the broader high - yield market .
Closed - end funds have leverage associated with them and saw larger outflows from investors wary of risk .
“ The reason ( closed - end funds ) go down faster is because they ’re levered , ” said Andrew Brenner , head of international fixed income at NatAlliance Securities .
“ In down markets , these things get hit pretty hard .
And this is a down market . ”
The DoubleLine Income Solutions fund ( DSL.N ) was down 9.7 % while the PGIM High Yield Bond Fund ( ISD.N ) was off 6.3 % .
Credit Suisse High Yield Bond Fund ( DHY.A ) was down 5.98 % , and the Barings Global Short Duration High Yield Fund ( BGH.N ) had dropped 6.79 % .
Investor worries about the coronavirus ’ effect on companies ’ cash flow has mounted enough that it has begun to affect the investment - grade market as well , a high - grade sector that can function as a haven in times of market volatility .
New high - yield bond issuance has been tepid for the past three weeks , as issuers pull deals and investors shun risk .
But the market for investment grade issues was active until Wednesday .
“ Up until yesterday , the IG market was still open and deals were still getting done .
It ’s only within the last 24 hours even that market has also slowed , ” said David Leduc , active fixed income chief investment officer at Mellon .
Some companies have begun to draw on credit lines for fear that capital markets may be closed to them for the time being .
Boeing Co ( BA.N ) is planning to draw down the rest of a $ 13.8 billion loan it agreed last month , a source told Reuters on Wednesday .
Bloomberg reported that Hilton Worldwide plans to draw down a portion of its $ 1.75 billion loan .
There will be more such announcements , said Leduc , from companies in sectors directly hit by coronavirus including travel , leisure and energy , which expect to see a hit to earnings .
Companies with debt maturing in the coming few quarters may also draw down loans .
The commercial paper market , which provides companies with short - term funding , has not yet seen a consistent slowdown in issuance , though the cost to borrow has risen this week , according to Federal Reserve data .
Reporting by Kate Duguid , writing by Megan Davies ;
Editing by Chizu Nomiyama , Nick Zieminski and Tom Brown

UPDATE 1-Golf-PGA Tour bans spectators from tournaments over coronavirus concerns .
2020-03-12 16:42:59 +00:00 .
( Adds quotes and details )
By Steve Keating
PONTE VEDRA , Fla. , March 12 ( Reuters ) -
The PGA Tour on Thursday banned spectators from attending tournaments until after April 5 , starting with Friday ’s second round of the Players Championship , because of concerns over the coronavirus outbreak .
The announcement was made by PGA Tour Commissioner Jay Monahan at TPC Sawgrass , where fans were already in place midway through the opening round of what is widely regarded as golf ’s unofficial fifth major .
Monahan said he spoke with U.S. President Donald Trump earlier on Thursday and that the White House are supportive of the precautionary measures the PGA Tour has taken .
“ At this point in time , PGA tour events – across all tours – will currently proceed as scheduled , but will do so without fans , ” said Monahan , adding that the policy could still change .
“ This is a difficult situation , one with consequences that impact our players , fans and the communities in which we play . ”
Earlier on Thursday the PGA Tour said that , given the information available , the Players Championship would continue as scheduled but added it was a “ very fluid situation that requires constant review . ”
At TPC Sawgrass , where the first group of golfers teed off at 7:40 a.m. ET ( 1240 GMT ) signs were posted indicating that an autograph ban was in place .
The ban on spectators ends just ahead of the April 9 - 12 Masters at Augusta National where the year ’s first major is expected to be contested .
Last week , Augusta National Chairman Fred Ridley said the Masters will proceed as scheduled and precautions will be established to ensure the safety of everyone following the coronavirus outbreak .
Augusta National did not immediately respond when asked by Reuters if they still expect to allow patrons at this year ’s Masters .
In addition to the Players Championship , the spectator ban impacts the March 19 - 22 Valspar Championship in Palm Harbor , Florida , the March 25 - 29 World Golf Championships - Match Play event in Austin and April 2 - 5 Valero Texas Open in San Antonio .
Monahan also said the March 26 - 29 event in Punta Cana has been postponed because of recently announced travel advisories and potential logistical issues associated with players and staff travelling internationally .
( Reporting by Steve Keating ; Writing by Frank Pingue ;
Editing by Mark Heinrich and Toby Davis )

UPDATE 2-Southern European bonds, euro zone stocks pummelled as ECB disappoints .
2020-03-12 15:31:45 +00:00 .
( Updates throughout )
By Dhara Ranasinghe and Yoruk Bahceli LONDON , March 12 ( Reuters ) -
Southern European bond yields soared on Thursday , euro area stocks were set for their worst day ever and the euro tumbled as markets expressed disappointment in the European Central Bank ’s easing measures to contain the fallout from coronavirus .
A comment by ECB chief Christine Lagarde that the central bank was not there to “ close spreads ” hit peripheral government bond markets especially hard .
Italy ’s 10 - year bond yield soared almost 60 basis points on the day to its highest level since July at around 1.88 % — it was on track for its biggest one - day jump since the height of the euro zone debt crisis in 2011 .
The closely - watched gap between Italian and German 10 - year bond yields pushed out to its widest since June at around 261 bps .
The Portuguese / German bond yield gap rose to 145 bps — its widest in over a year , while Portuguese and Spanish yields were set for their biggest daily jump since 2016 with rises of 17 - 30 bps .
“ The key bit was : ‘ we ’re not here to close spreads ’ , that ’s kind of the opposite from ‘ whatever it takes ’ of Draghi , ” said Rabobank rates strategist Lyn Graham - Taylor , referring to former ECB chief Mario Draghi .
“ For us , [ if they call for ] a fiscal response in the face of a severe economic crisis , without any debt mutualization , just sell peripherals all day long . ”
In a volatile session , safe - haven German bond yields swung wildly before heading back down in the face of heavy selling in stock markets and peripheral bonds .
Germany ’s two - year bond yield was marginally lower at -0.96 % .
Earlier , the ECB said it would offer fresh loans to banks , offer previously agreed liquidity facilities at even more favourable rates and it would temporarily increase asset purchases to help the economy cope .
But it disappointed markets by keeping interest rates unchanged .
“ She delivered what was the consensus .
Markets ... clearly they wanted a lot more , ” Barnaby Martin , head of credit strategy at BofA , said .
The euro weakened more than 1 % and was last trading at $ 1.11500 , having briefly risen immediately after the announcement .
Euro zone equities were at their lowest levels since June 2012 , extending earlier losses .
Euro zone banks slid almost 15 % ; the wider euro STOXX index tumbled over 10 % and was set for its biggest one - day fall ever .
“ There ’s a capitulation of some sorts given the total uncertainty of what ’s ahead of us , ” said Mikael Jacoby head of continental European equity sales at Oddo .
“ The ECB completely missed it , given the severity of the news flow , the actions taken were seen as very insufficient . ”
The iTraxx European crossover CDS index , a gauge of the cost of insuring against defaults by junk debt issuers , rose as high as 588 bps , up over 45 bps after the ECB decision , according to Tradeweb .
“ It ’s helpful that the interest rate on TLTROs can be as low as -0.75 % , so there is significant easing but no change in the headline interest rates , which is not good for the euro and highlights the limited ammunition that the ECB has left , ” said Chris Scicluna , head of economic research at Daiwa .
Euro zone money market futures meanwhile scaled back expectations for future rate cuts , suggesting a more than 80 % chance of a 10bps cut by July .
Before the ECB decision , markets had positioned for two rate cuts by June .
Additional reporting by Saikat Chatterjee , Tommy Wilkes , Karin
Strohecker and Julien Ponthus
Editing by Sujata Rao , Giles Elgood and Peter Graff

From Pride to drag to dance, LGBT+ events canned over coronavirus .
2020-03-12 13:45:16 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Thomson Reuters Foundation ) -
From a gay Pride march in Romania to a film festival in Tunisia , a U.S. drag - queen convention to a Thai dance party , LGBT+ groups are cancelling a slew of events amid the spread of coronavirus .
The first queer film festival to be staged in North Africa announced on Thursday that it would call off its 2020 event , one day after the first Pride march fell victim to the virus .
“ Some events will inevitably face cancellation , curtailment or postponement , ” Kristine Garina , president of the European Pride Organizers Association ( EPOA ) , said in a statement .
“ It is ironic that over the last few decades , various politicians , presidents , prime ministers , mayors , archbishops and other bigots have done their best to thwart and cancel Pride parades , but it was mother nature who succeeded . ”
Tunisia ’s LGBT+ group Mawjoudin We Exist announced plans to postpone its queer film festival - the first to be staged in socially conservative North Africa - until late May.
It is also cancelling all other group activities , including therapy services and club meetings .
A gay dance party in Thailand , SK2020 , which was expected to attract some 30,000 revellers next month , was also postponed until next year due to the virus outbreak .
The virus - which has infected more than 127,000 people and killed more than 4,700 , according to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus tracker - has hit a host of events around the world .
The organizer of Bucharest Pride said on Wednesday the event would be delayed by at least three months , the first of many LGBT+ rallies likely to be affected by the pandemic .
The Floridian city of Fort Lauderdale swiftly followed suit , postponing its first ever Pride of the Americas festival until autumn , with many more marches expected to do the same .
Bucharest Pride , which attracts about 10,000 people , was postponed from May 23 until August or September , said executive director Teodora Ion - Rotaru , as Romania banned events with more than 1,000 attendees after confirming 25 virus cases .
“ Public safety should really come first at a time like this , ” she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation .
PRIDE
Millions of people worldwide take part in the Pride marches to celebrate gay , bisexual and transgender achievements and rights , mostly during Pride Month in June .
Steve Taylor , a spokesman for the EPOA , had expected up to 1,000 Prides to take place in Europe in 2020 .
Few now expect such a show to take place .
Trans Pride Scotland , slated for March 28 , has been canceled , the organization tweeted on Wednesday .
Tokyo Pride said on its website that it will announce on March 25 whether its April event will go ahead .
Los Angeles Pride is also meeting city authorities to decide if it will push ahead with its 50th anniversary celebrations , executive director Madonna Cacciatore said in an EPOA webinar .
“ We ’re just in unchartered territory here , ” she said at the event attended by more than 70 Pride organizers .
Other major LGBT+ events affected include an annual awards gala put on by LGBT+ media advocacy group GLAAD , which said next week ’s ceremony in New York would be canceled .
RuPaul ’s DragCon , an annual drag - queen convention affiliated to a popular U.S. reality TV show , has also been called off .
Reporting by Rachel Savage @rachelmsavage with additional reporting by Oscar Lopez ; Joint reporting by Ban Barkawi .
Editing by Lyndsay Griffiths , Katy Migiro , Hugo Greenhalgh and Michael Taylor .
Please credit the Thomson Reuters Foundation , the charitable arm of Thomson Reuters , that covers the lives of people around the world who struggle to live freely or fairly .
Visit http://news.trust.org

Hamilton slams F1 for holding Australia GP despite virus .
2020-03-12 06:52:05 +00:00 .
MELBOURNE ( Reuters ) -
Formula One champion Lewis Hamilton said on Thursday it was “ shocking ” that the season - opening Australian Grand Prix could go ahead amid the threat of the coronavirus and suggested organisers had put financial concerns ahead of people ’s health .
Formula One F1 - Australian Grand Prix - Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit , Melbourne , Australia - March 12 , 2020 Mercedes ' Lewis Hamilton poses for a drivers portrait REUTERS /
Tracey Nearmy
The six - times world champion broke ranks with other drivers who said they were comfortable with assurances received from the governing FIA , even as other sports cancel events and competitions around the globe .
“ I am really very , very surprised we are here , ” Briton Hamilton told reporters at the Albert Park media centre on Thursday , a day before the cars roll out for the first free practice sessions at the circuit .
“ It is great we have races but for me it is shocking that we are all sitting in this room .
“ There are so many fans already here today .
“ It seems like the rest of the world is reacting , probably a little bit late .
“ But already this morning we ’ve seen ( U.S. President Donald )
Trump shutting down the borders from Europe ...
we ’re seeing the NBA has been suspended yet
Formula One continues to go on . ”
Hamilton said he feared for the health of the elderly in particular , and fans attending Albert Park , where more than 300,000 flocked during last year ’s race , according to organisers ’ estimates .
Several staff from the Haas and McLaren teams have been placed in quarantine and tested for the coronavirus , prompting Victoria state ’s top health official to warn that the race could be cancelled .
[ nL4N2B50RL ]
The results of the tests are expected later on Thursday but Hamilton was sceptical they would come out before the race .
“ I heard the results are not going to come back for five days or something .
Coincidence ?
“ Cash is king ....
I do n’t feel like I should shy away from my opinion .
“ Really for the fans , I really , really hope they can take precautions .
I was walking through and seeing everything going ahead like it ’s a normal day .
And I do n’t think it really is . ”
PADDOCK CONCERNED
Thousands of fans poured into Albert Park on Thursday as race - week kicked off with practice and qualifying for lower - profile motor sport circuits .
The Chinese Grand Prix , which was scheduled for April , has already been postponed while the Bahrain race on March 22 will go ahead without spectators .
Doubts have also grown about next month ’s race in Vietnam due to its quarantine measures .
[ nL8N2AW76U ] McLaren driver Carlos Sainz said everyone in the paddock was concerned about the virus and that only time would tell if ploughing ahead with Sunday ’s race was the right call .
“ We are obviously concerned with the situation but we are drivers and we do n’t really understand what is exactly going on worldwide , if it ’s safe to do it in Australia or Vietnam or whatever , ” the Spaniard told reporters .
Formula One F1 - Australian Grand Prix - Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit , Melbourne , Australia - March 12 , 2020 Mercedes ' Lewis Hamilton during the Media day REUTERS /
Edgar Su The Australian Grand Prix Corporation has declined to comment on the possibility of Sunday ’s race being cancelled or postponed or provide any public briefing to allay concerns .
“ I do n’t know if it ’s the right thing that we are here .
Probably not , ” said Alfa Romeo driver Kimi Raikkonen .
“ But it ’s not up to us , it ’s not our decision .
I think if it would be purely all the teams ’ decision we probably would n’t be here . ”
Editing by Peter Rutherford

SE Asia Stocks-Dive as suspends travel from Europe, WHO calls coronavirus a pandemic .
2020-03-12 04:31:43 +00:00 .
* Indonesia , Vietnam enter bear market territory * Thai stocks see worst session since Oct 2008 * Philippine shares dive to lowest since Feb 2014
By Shruti Sonal March 12 ( Reuters ) - Southeast Asian stock markets stumbled on Thursday , with Indonesia and Vietnam entering bear market territory , after the United States imposed a temporary ban on travel from Europe and world health officials declared the coronavirus a pandemic .
U.S. President Donald Trump suspended all travel from Europe to the United States for 30 days starting on Friday as he responded to mounting pressure to take action against the spread of the virus .
The World Health Organization described the virus as a pandemic for the first time on Wednesday , warning that Italy and
Iran were now on the frontline of the disease and other countries would soon join them .
" At the crux of the issue is the fear of the prolonged , widespread coronavirus sustaining its hold on the market , " Jingyi Pan , market strategist at IG , said in a note .
" Even though we do have substantial support coming through from governments and central banks alike , the dispersion of the virus so far continues to mark the risks of dragging the global economy into recession . "
Central banks and governments world over are rolling out stimulus measures to contain the economic impact of the virus .
The European Central Bank is expected to approve a stimulus package to support the eurozone economy when it meets later in the day .
However , investors are sceptical about the efficacy of these measures as the virus continues to extract a heavy human and economic toll .
In Southeast Asia , Indonesia and Vietnam entered bear market territory , joining the Philippines and Thailand .
Indonesian stocks fell as much as 4.4 % , shedding more than 22 % from its Jan. 15 peak , even after the government announced tax relief measures for manufacturing amid the outbreak .
Vietnam shares dived as much as 5.7 % , falling more than 23 % from its Jan. 22 peak , with Vietjet Aviation JSC hitting its lowest since December 2017 .
Tourism - dependent Thai equities tumbled over 9 % in their worst session since October 2008 , a day after the country suspended visas on arrival for visitors from 19 countries to limit the virus spread .
Philippine stocks slumped as much as 6.7 % to their lowest since February 2014 , as increasing case of the virus sent its senate into a lockdown .
Singapore stocks fell as much as 4.2 % to their lowest in more than four years , as concerns of recession in the trade - reliant economy grew .
For Asian Companies click ; SOUTHEAST ASIAN STOCK MARKETS at 0317 GMT Change on the day Market Current
Previous close Pct Move Singapore 2681.42 2783.72
-3.67 Bangkok 1174.08 1249.89
-6.07 Manila 5931.25 6353.26 -6.64 Jakarta 4951.264 5154.105
-3.94
Kuala Lumpur 1427.13 1443.83
-1.16
Ho Chi Minh
767.1 811.35
-5.45
Change so far in 2020
Market Current
End 2019 Pct Move Singapore 2681.42 3222.83 -16.80
Bangkok 1174.08 1579.84
-25.68
Manila 5931.25 7,815.26 -24.11
Jakarta 4951.264
6,299.54 -21.40 Kuala Lumpur 1427.13 1588.76
-10.17
Ho Chi Minh
767.1 960.99 -20.18
( Reporting by Shruti Sonal ;
Editing by Subhranshu Sahu )

Brazil's World Cup qualifiers postponed due to virus concerns: CBF source .
2020-03-12 03:54:27 +00:00 .
Fake blood is seen in test tubes labelled with the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) in this illustration taken March 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Dado Ruvic / Illustration RIO DE JANEIRO ( Reuters ) - Brazil ’s first two qualifying matches for the 2022 World Cup have been postponed because of the coronavirus , a source at the Brazilian Football Confederation ( CBF ) told Reuters on Wednesday .
The five - times world champions were due to kick off their campaign at home to Bolivia on March 27 and then fly to Lima to play Peru four days later .
FIFA and the South American Football Confederation ( CONMEBOL ) have yet to make an official statement but all 10 games in the first two rounds of qualifiers between March 26 and March 31 look set to be postponed .
The decision comes two days after FIFA and the Asian Football Confederation agreed to postpone Asia ’s World Cup qualifiers in March and June due to the coronavirus outbreak .
Earlier in the day , Argentina suspended all sports events that feature competitors from abroad until the end of March , with the South American swimming championship , world cup fencing events , the fourth of five Olympic boxing qualifiers for the Americas , and three days of South American athletics are among the events hit .
Paraguay has decided Copa Libertadores and Copa Sudamericana matches will be played with no spectators for the next two weeks .
Reporting by Rodrigo Viga Gaier , writing by Andrew Downie ;
Editing by Peter Rutherford

Soccer: Brazil's World Cup qualifiers postponed due to virus concerns: CBF source .
2020-03-12 02:54:01 +00:00 .
RIO DE JANEIRO ( Reuters ) - Brazil ’s first two qualifying matches for the 2022 World Cup have been postponed because of the coronavirus , a source at the Brazilian Football Confederation ( CBF ) told Reuters on Wednesday .
The five - times world champions were due to kick off their campaign at home to Bolivia on March 27 and then fly to Lima to play Peru four days later .
FIFA and the South American Football Confederation ( CONMEBOL ) have yet to make an official statement but all 10 games in the first two rounds of qualifiers between March 26 and March 31 look set to be postponed .
The decision comes two days after FIFA and the Asian Football Confederation agreed to postpone Asia ’s World Cup qualifiers in March and June due to the coronavirus outbreak .
Earlier in the day , Argentina suspended all sports events that feature competitors from abroad until the end of March , with the South American swimming championship , world cup fencing events , the fourth of five Olympic boxing qualifiers for the Americas , and three days of South American athletics are among the events hit .
Paraguay has decided Copa Libertadores and Copa Sudamericana matches will be played with no spectators for the next two weeks .
Reporting by Rodrigo Viga Gaier , writing by Andrew Downie ;
Editing by Peter Rutherford

Madrid records new jump in coronavirus cases, faces hospital bed crunch .
2020-03-11 21:44:25 +00:00 .
MADRID ( Reuters ) -
The number of confirmed coronavirus infections jumped in the Madrid region overnight , testing the limits of the healthcare system , officials said on Wednesday , after a senior doctor warned intensive care units could be running out of beds .
A woman , wearing a protective face mask , walks outside a closed school on the first day of a two - week clousure of all kindergartens , schools and universities in the Madrid region as a precaution against coronavirus in Madrid , Spain , March 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Sergio Perez Health authorities said known cases in the capital region had risen to 1,024 from 782 on Tuesday - about half of the nationwide total in Spain , one of the highest levels in Europe behind Italy .
Spanish authorities have reported 47 deaths , 31 of them in Madrid .
“ The mortality rate in Madrid is higher because there are several outbreaks associated with retirement homes , ” Fernando Simon , Spain ’s health emergency chief , told a news conference .
“ The healthcare services , although they are responding , are doing so under very significant stress , something that we have to limit for the rest of the territory , ” Simon said , and this was the main objective of a batch of newly announced measures .
It comes as Madrid ’s regional president Isabel Diaz Ayuso said on Wednesday evening that according to health specialists there would be a “ sharp increase ” in infections in Madrid this weekend and the worst of spreading of the virus would take place over the next three weeks .
Spain , which at first took few steps against the outbreak , changed tack on Monday after infections soared , declaring a ban on flights from Italy , closing some schools and cautioning against domestic and foreign travel .
On Wednesday evening the Ministry of Culture announced the closure of all state - run museums in Madrid , including the Prado and Reina Sofia , “ until further notice ” .
Jose Ramon Arribas , a doctor appointed by the Madrid region as a spokesman on the coronavirus crisis , tweeted on Tuesday that local hospitals grappling with coronavirus cases were running out of protective gear and could soon run out of intensive care beds .
“ Response to COVID-19 ( coronavirus ) must be a national priority .
Please RT ( re - tweet ) , ” Arribas tweeted .
Simon said some areas were nearing limits on medical equipment needed to deal with the crisis , but added that they would receive fresh supplies as soon as Wednesday .
Public health authorities were also looking into strengthening coordination with private health care providers .
Madrid hospitals have received 81 % of the patients admitted to intensive care because of coronavirus across the country , Simon said .
The infections in Madrid were more serious than in other regions where those infected tend to be younger and to have caught it from people who traveled abroad .
Madrid authorities said on Wednesday an additional 516 workers had been hired to help deal with the epidemic , including people answering an information hotline .
Schools throughout the Madrid region were closed and events of more than 1,000 people banned there and in the affluent northern region of Catalonia .
Madrid ’s museums also adapted to the crisis with the famed
Prado saying it had reduced the number of visitors allowed into its most popular rooms and a spokeswoman at the Reine Sofia said the museum had banned group visits .
Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Tuesday Spain would do “ whatever is necessary ” to curb the coronavirus outbreak .
Additional reporting by Inti Landauro and Jessica Jones ;
Writing by Belén Carreño and Ingrid Melander ;
Editing by Mark Heinrich and Diane Craft

More matches postponed, quarantine problem for internationals .
2020-03-11 21:19:56 +00:00 .
ZURICH ( Reuters ) -
The coronavirus outbreak led to more soccer postponements around Europe on Wednesday while travel and quarantine restrictions posed potential problems for international matches even in regions which have so far been less affected .
FILE PHOTO :
Soccer Football - Serie A - Juventus v Inter Milan - Allianz Stadium , Turin , Italy - March 8 , 2020 General view of empty seats inside the stadium before the match is played behind closed doors REUTERS / Massimo Pinca / File Photo Spain ’s Copa del Rey final , due to be played on April 18 , was called off and French media reported that the country ’s League Cup final between Paris St Germain and Olympique Lyonnais had also been postponed .
Spain was due to hold a meeting on Thursday to decide whether La Liga matches , which are to be played behind closed doors for at least two weeks , should be postponed altogether following a request from the players ’ union .
UEFA was forced to call off Thursday ’s Europa League round of 16 first - leg matches between Inter Milan and Getafe at San Siro and Sevilla against AS Roma at the Ramon Sanchez - Pizjuan stadium .
AS Roma said they could not travel after the Spanish government banned flights from Italy — Europe ’s worst - hit country — while Getafe refused to go to Milan , saying they were prepared forfeit the tie .
The Gazzetta dello Sport said both matches could be played as single - leg ties on neutral territory .
Meanwhile , North Macedonia ’s federation said it had written to UEFA asking for a postponement of its team ’s Euro 2020 playoff match at home to Kosovo on March 26 .
Besides a government ban on spectators , the federation said there was a potential problem with players arriving from countries in a high - risk zone being ordered into quarantine .
North Macedonia have three Italian - based players — Ilija Nestorovski , Elif Elmas and Goran Pandev — while Kosovo ’s Amir Rrahmani , who plays for Verona , would also be affected .
Chile ’s health minister said that top players Alexis Sanchez , based in Italy , and Arturo Vidal , based in Spain , would both be quarantined if they returned home for this month ’s World Cup qualifiers .
Several other Chilean players are also based in Italy and Spain .
The opening two rounds of the South American competition are due to take place this month .
Chile ’s first home game is against Colombia on March 31 , although there was no mention of whether the quarantine would apply to Colombian players .
Argentina ’s government has banned all international sporting events this month , although the national team ’s soccer World Cup qualifier at home to Ecuador on March 26 is not affected at this stage .
Argentina and Colombia are due to jointly host the Copa America in June and July .
South American governing body CONMEBOL said it had been asked many questions about the qualifiers but emphasised that the final decision lay with FIFA .
FIFA has postponed all Asian World Cup qualifiers scheduled for this month and June , although it said matches can go ahead with the approval of both countries involved .
Reporting by Brian Homewood , editing by Ed Osmond

Gold prices ease as investors cover margins .
2020-03-11 19:30:23 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
Gold prices fell on Wednesday after rising as much as 1.3 % earlier in the session , as traders sold the precious metal to cover margins for stock markets spooked by the global spread of coronavirus .
FILE PHOTO :
Gold bars stacked in the safe deposit boxes room of the Pro Aurum gold house in Munich , Germany , August 14 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Michael Dalder Spot gold XAU= was down 0.4 % at $ 1,642.98 per ounce by 01:40 p.m. EDT ( 1740 GMT ) , while U.S. gold futures GCcv1 settled 0.2 % lower at $ 1,642.30 .
U.S. stocks dived , largely erasing Tuesday ’s gains , as traders were skeptical about President Donald Trump ’s stimulus plan to cushion the impact from the coronavirus outbreak .
“ The price action ( in gold ) is fairly range - bound .
The virus worries in equity markets continued to offer support , ” said Ryan McKay , a commodity strategist at TD Securities .
“ Global central banks are offering stimulus . ”
“ At the same time , gold is being sold when equity markets are having a bad day to cover margins .
I think the story has n’t changed that much over the couple of weeks , ” he added .
Globally , there are over 119,000 confirmed coronavirus cases .
The White House and Congress negotiated stimulus measures on Tuesday , although there was no immediate sign of a deal .
Further supporting bullion , U.S. 10 - year Treasury yields resumed their slide back towards Monday ’s record low .
The U.S. Federal Reserve slashed benchmark interest rates in an emergency move last week , and is expected to cut rates further when it meets later this month .
FEDWATCH
Gold tends to appreciate on expectations of lower rates , which reduce the opportunity cost of holding non - yielding bullion .
Earlier on Wednesday , the Bank of England made an emergency rate cut and launched a package of other measures to combat a coronavirus - driven economic slowdown .
The European Central Bank is also expected to unveil new stimulus measures on Thursday .
Meanwhile , holdings in the world ’s largest gold - backed exchange - traded fund , SPDR Gold Trust ( GLD ) , held near their highest in more than three years .
“ ETFs are reflecting investment , ” said Soni Kumari , a commodity strategist at ANZ , adding that the lower interest rate environment and safe - haven demand were boosting inflows .
Elsewhere , palladium XPD= fell 4.4 % to $ 2,312.62 per ounce .
“ It was quite surprising that palladium was able to withstand massive headwinds from coronavirus for such a long time , so now it feels the pain of it , ” Commerzbank analyst Carsten Fritsch said , noting that declining car sales are expected to weigh down the autocatalyst metal .
Platinum XPT= eased 0.2 % to $ 866.87 , while silver XAG= fell 0.4 % to $ 16.79 per ounce .
Reporting by Harshith Aranya and Brijesh Patel in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Jan Harvey and Richard Chang

Qatar and Bahrain record jump in coronavirus cases, Kuwait bans flights .
2020-03-11 17:16:09 +00:00 .
DUBAI ( Reuters ) - Qatar reported 238 more coronavirus infections among individuals under quarantine in a residential compound on Wednesday , the latest Gulf state to record new cases in a regional outbreak that prompted Kuwait to cancel all commercial passenger flights .
Doctors check a traveller in their designated residential area to check on residents who returned from Iran if anyone is infected with the novel coronavirus , at Isa Town Health Center , south of Manama , Bahrain , March 2 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Hamad
I Mohammed Bahrain earlier announced 77 new infections among citizens evacuated by plane from Iran , which has emerged as an epicentre for the virus in the Middle East .
Two meetings of G20 economies due to be held in Saudi Arabia have been postponed .
Kuwait , which has 72 confirmed coronavirus cases , announced it would halt all commercial passenger flights starting on Friday and declared a public holiday from March 12 to March 26 except for entities providing essential services .
It banned people from going to restaurants and cafes and asked them to no longer hold Kuwait ’s traditional diwaniya private and public gatherings , state news agency KUNA said .
All Gulf Arab states have recorded infections but no deaths .
The spike in cases in Qatar , which took the country ’s tally to 262 , was among expatriates who had been quarantined inside one compound after three residents were diagnosed with the virus on Sunday , the health ministry said .
Bahrain ’s new infections were among 165 individuals flown home on Tuesday in the first repatriation flight from Iran .
A second government - chartered flight is set for Thursday .
Those who did not test positive will be quarantined in a dedicated facility , Bahrain ’s government communications office said in a separate statement .
There are no direct flights between Bahrain and Iran , the world ’s fourth most affected country , with more than 8,000 infections .
Airlines are cancelling flights across the region as governments try to stem the spread of the virus .
A meeting of agriculture and water ministers of the Group of 20 major economies in Saudi Arabia , set from March 17 to March 19 , has been postponed until further notice because of virus concerns , organisers said in an email seen by Reuters .
A G20 working group meeting scheduled for next week was also postponed , two sources familiar with the matter told Reuters .
The kingdom holds the G20 presidency this year and hosts the annual summit in November .
It recorded one new virus infection in an Egyptian transiting through Jeddah airport on his way to Cairo , state media said on Wednesday , taking its tally to 21 .
Riyadh ’s preventive measures include locking down its eastern Qatif region , suspending the Umrah pilgrimage and travel bans on 14 countries .
The causeway linking Saudi Arabia to Bahrain was closed on Saturday .
In the United Arab Emirates , the central bank said it was prepared to support the banking system in mitigating against the downside risk of the coronavirus outbreak .
Reporting by Alaa Swilam , Lisa Barrington , Stephen Kalin , Alexander Cornwell ; Writing by Lisa Barrington and Ghaida Ghantous ; Editing by Larry King , Clarence Fernandez ,
William Maclean

Air and cruise lines shore up liquidity as coronavirus hits travel industry .
2020-03-11 16:38:29 +00:00 .
NEW YORK , March 11 ( LPC ) - Travel and leisure companies have tapped their relationship banks for new loans to bolster liquidity and shore up investor confidence as the global spread of coronavirus heightens fears over passenger travel and canceled reservations pile up .
Cruise ship operators Norwegian Cruise Line and Royal Caribbean , along with air carrier United Airlines lined up approximately US$ 3.23bn in new money collectively on Tuesday , one day after the virus epidemic caused a sell - off across global equity market indices with the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropping 7.8 % .
United raised an incremental US$ 2bn term loan with a group of banks , while Norwegian signed a US$ 675 m revolving credit facility and Royal Caribbean increased its existing revolving credit line by US$ 550 m to roughly US$ 2.28bn , the companies said in respective filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission .
The respiratory virus , which originated in Wuhan , China , has since spread globally and demand for travel has dwindled as businesses cut out non - essential staff travel , and tourists cancel holidays .
Airlines , meanwhile , have been forced to slash economic forecasts , revise flight schedules and in some cases , peddle jaw - dropping discounts to lure unfazed travelers .
“ You ’ll see more liquidity facilities .
This is something we were expecting in certain sectors , like airlines , gaming and cruises , ” a banker said .
Airlines ’ operating margins are expected to be less than 5 % for 2020 , down from expectations of 9 % before the coronavirus outbreak , Moody ’s Investors Service said in a report .
“ At a time like this , there is no shame in bolstering liquidity , ” Jonathan Root , a senior vice president at Moody ’s said in an interview .
CASHED UP Chicago - headquartered United said the new secured US$ 2bn loan lifts total liquidity to US$ 8bn and the airline plans to reduce its proposed capital expenditure for 2020 by roughly one - third to US$ 4.5bn .
United expects to post a loss for the first quarter , while Chief Executive Officer Oscar Munoz and President Scott Kirby both said they will forego their base salaries until at least June 30 .
“ Eight billion US dollars ( in liquidity ) is a solid amount and now ( United ) has a cushion to meet obligations that come its way , ” added Root .
Norwegian , which signed the one - year credit line with JP Morgan as its administrative agent , has yet to draw on either the new US$ 675 m loan or its existing US$ 875 m bank facility , giving it US$ 1.55bn in available cash , the company said in its filing .
Shares in the two cruise liners pared losses after US President Donald Trump said the administration will support both the cruise and airline industries , Reuters reported on Tuesday .
United ’s share price opened at US$ 50.53 on Wednesday , down from US$ 89.74 on January 2 .
Norwegian ’s stock has sunk since the outbreak , opening at US$ 19.55 on Wednesday , down from US$ 52.49 a month earlier .
Royal Caribbean withdrew its first quarter and full - year financial forecasts for 2020 due to the uncertainty of the coronavirus , while its stock opened at US$ 48.33 on Wednesday , down almost 66 % year - to - date .
As more companies move to mitigate disruptions from the virus , lenders anticipate that borrowers across sectors such as transportation , leisure and energy will require immediate financial cover in the form of short - term loans .
“ Companies are usually good at forecasting their needs , but this is an unusual situation , ” said a second banker .
“ As they assess what their needs are , banks will provide that support to companies that have those relationships . ”
( Reporting by Daniela Guzman and Aaron Weinman .
Editing by Michelle Sierra and Kristen Haunss . )

Briton struck with coronavirus in Wuhan recalls: 'I couldn't get enough air' .
2020-03-11 16:24:41 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Connor Reed was working in Wuhan when he contracted the coronavirus in late 2019 , suffering common cold - like symptoms , then flu , and ultimately pneumonia which hospitalised him and left him struggling to breathe .
British resident of Wuhan Connor Reed speaks with Reuters , amid a coronavirus outbreak , in Wuhan , Hubei province , China March 11 , 2020 , in this still image taken from video .
REUTERS TV / via REUTERS Now fully recovered after a month of sickness , and still living in Wuhan , where the epidemic first broke out , Welshman Reed , 25 , has adapted to the new normal in the city under lockdown since late January .
“ I first had a cold - just an everyday cold , a thing that everybody gets .
I then got better before I got worse .
So from the cold I progressed into the flu ... definitely the worst flu that I ’ve had . ”
“ From the flu .
I got better again , and that ’s when I had pneumonia .
The pneumonia stage was when I went to the hospital . ”
At the time of his admission , authorities in China were not fully aware of the scale of the outbreak of the new virus .
Reed got confirmation at the end of December that he had had COVID-19 .
“ When I had the flu symptoms , that felt like I ’d been hit by a truck .
And it was quite debilitating ... however , it was n’t life threatening . ”
“ When I had pneumonia , that ’s the point where it was getting quite serious .
It felt like I could only use half my lung capacity , and every breath I took was n’t enough
and I just could n’t get enough air . ”
Reed said it sounded like he was breathing through “ a paper bag ” and as if there was stuff in his lungs that would n’t shift .
But as a young man who was n’t in a critical state and with the hospital facing an influx of people , Reed was sent home to rest .
He is now looking forward to the lockdown slowly lifting and expects the quarantine to ease by the middle of next month .
Chinese authorities feel the tide is turning in their favour and some vital industries in Wuhan were told they can resume work on Wednesday , a day after President Xi Jinping visited there for the first time since the outbreak began .
“ If they release a quarantine too early ... we ’ll be back to square one .
It ’s better to be overly cautious than not cautious enough , ” said Reed .
“ Everything ’s changed , from how we go shopping to how we manage the house ...
Everybody ’s taken the time to adjust and we all have adjusted .
It ’s a case of people doing the best with what they have , ” he said .
He believes the Chinese government has dealt with the epidemic as well as it could , and because of the nature of Chinese society , it could take strict measures which people would adhere to .
As the outbreak accelerates outside China , Reed says : “ Other governments definitely can learn from it .
However , each individual country and individual government has different responsibilities and different things that they can do . ”
“ Also , people individually , they have to manage it themselves and take their own precautions .
They ca n’t rely on the government too much . ”
Reporting by Ben Dangerfield ;
Writing by Alexandra Hudson ;
Editing by Janet Lawrence

Two-thirds of Germans may get coronavirus, Merkel says .
2020-03-11 14:27:32 +00:00 .
BERLIN ( Reuters ) - Germany will spend what it takes to tackle the coronavirus which is likely to infect up to 70 % of the population in Europe ’s largest economy , Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Wednesday .
“ We will do what we need to get through this .
And then at the end we will look at what that means for our budget , ” she told reporters , seeming to distance herself from Germany ’s policy of no new borrowing .
Though conceding she did not know how the crisis would develop , Merkel said the risk was huge .
“ When the virus is out there , and the population has no immunity and no vaccination or therapy exists , then a high percentage - experts say 60 to 70 % of the population - will be infected , so long as this remains the case , ” she said .
That drew swift criticism from the Czech prime minister who said Merkel ’s remarks could cause panic .
Germany has confirmed three deaths related to the coronavirus .
It has reported 1,296 cases , according to the Robert Koch Institute for disease control .
The chancellor was speaking after mass - selling daily Bild berated her for what it called “ the corona chaos ” .
“ No appearances , no speech , no leadership in the crisis , ” it wrote .
Merkel urged Germans to watch their personal hygiene and contacts , recommending they look each other in the eye “ for a second longer ” rather than shake hands .
“ We will do what is necessary as a country , and that is also together with Europe , ” added the chancellor , who spoke to fellow European Union ( EU ) leaders and the president of the European Central Bank ( ECB ) on Tuesday evening .
“ We can not yet gauge the economic consequences ...
but we will react , ” said Merkel , whose government has promised “ timely , targeted ” stimulus .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel address a news conference on coronavirus in Berlin , Germany , March 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Axel Schmidt POST - WAR FEDERALISM IN SPOTLIGHT
In a radio interview , Health Minister Jens Spahn said sealing borders , as neighbor Austria has done to Italians , would not work .
At the news conference with Merkel , he urged Germans to stay away from soccer matches , concerts and clubs , but said he was “ very reserved ” about blanket closures of nurseries and schools as many public service workers rely on them being open .
The crisis has drawn attention to Germany ’s federal system of government , in which power is devolved to the 16 states and regional authorities .
They must decide for themselves whether to follow Spahn ’s advice to cancel events with over 1,000 people .
Spahn said it was “ astonishing ” that no decision had been taken to call off a football match between Union Berlin and Bayern Munich scheduled in Berlin on Saturday , though the city later said it would take place behind closed doors .
“ The corona crisis shows that , without clear guidance , federalism in the fight against epidemics is reaching its limits , ” Bild wrote .
Merkel said federalism did not mean anyone could evade responsibility , and that she would meet state premiers on Thursday to coordinate the coronavirus response .
During Merkel ’s news conference , Berlin ’s city authorities said they had banned events with more than 1,000 participants until the end of Easter holidays in mid - April .
Germany ’s federal system was agreed by its victorious enemies after World War Two and enshrined in its constitution to avoid a repeat of the centralized power wielded by the Nazis .
Additional reporting by Madeline Chambers , Michael Nienaber and Thomas Seythal in Berlin , Jan Lopatka in Prague ;
Editing by Andrew Cawthorne

Coronavirus response shows Japan still 'paralyzed' in crises -Fukushima investigator .
2020-03-11 13:30:48 +00:00 .
TOKYO , March 11 ( Reuters ) - Nine years after Japan ’s 2011 earthquake and nuclear disaster , the government ’s handling of the coronavirus epidemic shows it remains hamstrung in responding to crises , the head of the commission that investigated the Fukushima accident said .
Kiyoshi Kurokawa chaired the Fukushima Nuclear Accident Independent Investigation Commission , which determined that the disaster was manmade due to regulatory failures and deficiencies in the government response .
A similar scenario is playing out now with a lack of leadership in parliament and a bureaucracy that can not adapt to unforeseen crises , Kurokawa said in an interview with Reuters .
“ Unless it ’s written in law , their brains are paralyzed when something happens , ” said Kurokawa , now an emeritus professor at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies .
The March 11 , 2011 earthquake and tsunami triggered the world ’s worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl at the Tokyo Electric Power Co ’s Fukushima Daiichi plant , 220 km ( 130 miles ) northeast of Tokyo .
Critics have accused Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of an initial lack of leadership and then over - abrupt actions to stem the coronavirus outbreak , such as school closures that left parents and employers scrambling .
Japan has reported 1,278 cases of coronavirus and 19 deaths .
Parliament is set this week to amend a law that would allow Abe to declare a state of emergency over the coronavirus if needed .
Such a law should be buttressed by know - how and preparedness on the part of the civil service , Kurokawa said .
“ To make this law effective , you have to practice certain things , like with Fukushima and infectious disease , ” he said .
“ But how to do it in an emergency ?
I think Japanese bureaucrats have no experience . ”
One sore point is Japan ’s relatively low amount of testing for the coronavirus .
The health ministry has built up its testing capacity to more than 6,000 daily but is averaging only about 900 exams per day .
By comparison , South Korea , with at least 7,755 known infections and 63 deaths , has implemented drive - through exams and tested about 200,000 people related to an outbreak at a church .
Health Ministry official Yasuyuki Sahara defended the Japan ’s response , telling a press briefing that the government was trying to prevent patients “ rushing into hospitals ” and disabling their ability to deal with severe cases .
Kurokawa , a medical doctor who served as a science adviser to the Japanese cabinet from 2006 - 2008 , said Japan could allay concerns about its virus response by increasing transparency and letting any concerned patients be tested .
“ Any patient who comes to the doctor , if they have a reasonable suspicion ( of having coronavirus ) , and they want this testing , just do it , ” he said .
“ And what is the price ?
That comes later anyway . ”
( Reporting by Rocky Swift Editing by Mark Heinrich )

Chile to quarantine returning soccer stars Alexis Sanchez and Arturo Vidal: health ministry .
2020-03-10 21:30:07 +00:00 .
SANTIAGO ( Reuters ) - Chilean soccer stars
Alexis Sanchez and Arturo Vidal will be quarantined when they return to their home country from Europe to play in a World Cup qualifier this month , Chile ’s health minister said on Tuesday .
FILE PHOTO :
Soccer Football - International Friendly - Chile v Colombia - Estadio Jose
Rico Perez , Alicante , Spain - October 12 , 2019
Chile 's Alexis Sanchez reacts
REUTERS / Javier
Barbancho
The players - who are signed to European clubs - are due to fly first to Uruguay for a World Cup qualifier on March 26 and then to Chile to face Colombia .
Italy announced a quarantine and advised against all but non - essential travel until April 3 after its death toll from coronavirus jumped by 168 to 631 this week .
“ We do not make any distinction by people ’s profession because nobody is immune to this virus and indeed the quarantine determined today for Italy applies to everyone , ” said Health Minister Jaime Mañalich , according to local news website Emol .
“ Of course , if these players want to work out on a machine in their homes , or all be quarantined together at Juan Pinto Duran ( the national football stadium ) , then that ’s their call . ”
A source at the Football Federation of Chile told Emol it had been told nothing about quarantine plans for the players .
“ So far there are no changes to our plans , ” a source said .
“ What the minister says comes as a surprise . ”
Spain has suspended flights from Italy and also advised against all non - essential travel .
It has so far reported 36 deaths and 1,639 confirmed cases .
Italy has at least 10,149 .
Alexis Sánchez plays for Inter Milan and Vidal plays for FC Barcelona .
Another Chilean player likely to be impacted is Gary Medel , who plays for the Italian club Bologna .
Sanchez ’s team has been playing Serie A matches in empty stadiums after the Italian government banned large gatherings last week .
At around the same time , there was a flurry of claims on social media that Sanchez himself may have contracted the coronavirus - reports later explained by a poor translation of a story about Sanchez ’s team being impacted by the games ban .
Chile is tracking people returning from countries affected by coronavirus in a bid to contain its spread .
So far , 17 cases have been confirmed in the South American country .
Reporting by Fabian Cambero , writing by Aislinn Laing ;
Editing by Tom Brown , David Gregorio and Dan Grebler

Atlantia shares touch multi-year lows as virus worries grow .
2020-03-10 17:14:05 +00:00 .
MILAN , March 10 ( Reuters ) - Shares in Italy ’s Atlantia hit their lowest in more than six years on Tuesday as concern about a fall in traffic following the coronavirus outbreak and a jump in bond yields deepened the impact of a long - standing feud with Rome .
Atlantia , which is controlled by the Benetton family , runs more than half of Italy ’s highway network through Autostrade per l’Italia and operates Rome ’s airports with its ADR unit .
The government has repeatedly threatened to strip Atlantia of its motorway concession after a motorway bridge operated by Autostrade collapsed in August 2018 , killing 43 people .
In recent days , the coronavirus outbreak in Italy has increased pressure on the group , analysts said .
“ There are several causes for the drastic fall in the stock , ” Marco Opipari , analyst at broker Fidentiis , said , citing the virus impact on traffic , uncertainty over the group ’s motorway concession , a jump in yields , and a fall in value of Atlantia ’s assets in Latin America .
Shares in Atlantia fell to 14.35 euros at 1550 GMT , their lowest since September 2013 and the group ’s notes were also hit .
The group has a total debt of 38 billion euros ( $ 43 billion ) , which includes 8 billion euros in bonds issued by Autostrade and more than 5 billion euros in notes issued by Atlantia .
A bond issued by the group and due on February 2025 traded at 87.84 on Tuesday with a yield of 4.44 % according to Refinitiv data .
Last week the same bond was trading at around 97 , with a yield of 2.20 % .
On Monday the Italian government placed the whole of Italy under lockdown until next month to try to beat the coronavirus in Europe ’s worst - affected country .
Italian flagship carrier Alitalia , whose hub is Rome ’s Fiumicino airport , had to cut domestic and international flights because of the government curbs and restrictions on flights and passengers from Italy .
At the same time , an informal proposal sent by the company to the government several weeks ago to find a compromise over Autostrade ’s concession has yet to receive an answer .
Italian financial daily Il Sole 24 Ore reported the government refused the idea , mooted by some investment banks , of reducing Atlantia ’s stake in Autostrade to make room for infrastructure fund F2i .
“ I hope the group can reach a deal with the transport ministry in May or June , but I am not yet that sure , ” a source close to the matter told Reuters , speaking on condition of anonymity .
$ 1 = 0.8824 euros
Additional reporting by Stephen Jewkes ; editing by Barbara
Lewis

Stock futures bounce as stimulus hopes dull recession fears .
2020-03-10 12:32:49 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - U.S. stock index futures jumped about 4 % on Tuesday , clawing back dramatic losses recorded a day earlier on rising hopes for coordinated policy easing to avert a global recession from the coronavirus epidemic .
Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) in New York , U.S. , March 9 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Bryan R Smith Wall Street ’s main indexes plunged more than 7 % on Monday - the 11th anniversary of the longest U.S. bull run - as oil prices plummeted following pledges by top producers Saudi Arabia and Russia to increase output in an over - supplied market .
The selloff on Monday was so sharp it triggered trading halts put in place in the wake of 1987 ’s
“ Black Monday ” crash , with the blue - chip Dow Jones shedding as much as 2,000 points and the indexes slipping toward a bear market .
Markets now await President Donald Trump ’s news conference on Tuesday , a day after he promised “ major ” steps to combat the virus outbreak and said he would discuss a payroll tax cut with congressional Republicans .
“ For markets , confidence and , ultimately , economic activity to turn up again , we will need clear evidence that the spread of the virus is being held back sufficiently to allow health systems to cope , ” said Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg .
The number of confirmed virus cases in the United States rose to 668 on Monday , from over 500 a day earlier .
Meanwhile , Italy has been placed under nationwide lockdown until next month and Japan unveiled a $ 4 billion package to help combat the outbreak .
At 7:30 a.m. ET , Dow e - minis 1YMcv1 were up 947 points , or 3.97 % .
SP 500 e - minis EScv1 were up 111.25 points , or 4.05 % , and Nasdaq 100 e - minis NQcv1 were up 336.25 points , or 4.23 % .
The SP 500 has not yet posted a one - day gain of 5 % in this bull market - which began with the bottoming of the benchmark index on March 9 , 2009 .
The index ’s biggest one - day gain in this run so far was 4.959 % on Dec. 26 , 2018 .
Oil also recouped some losses from its biggest one - day decline since the Gulf War in 1991 , supported by expectations for a settlement to the price war and potential U.S. output cuts .
[ O / R ]
Oil majors Exxon Mobil Corp ( XOM.N ) and Chevron Corp ( CVX.N ) climbed more than 7 % in premarket trading , while Occidental Petroleum Corp ( OXY.N ) , Apache Corp ( APA.N ) and Marathon Oil Corp ( MRO.N ) jumped between 18 % and 25 % .
Shares of U.S. banks including Bank of America Corp ( BAC.N ) , Citigroup Inc ( C.N ) , JPMorgan Chase
Co ( JPM.N ) , Goldman Sachs ( GS.N ) , Wells Fargo Co ( WFC.N ) and Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ) were up between 4.7 % and 6 % .
The SP banks index .SPXBK fell about 14.2 % on Monday , in its worst day since April 2009 , as the yield on the U.S. 10 - year Treasury US10YT = RR slid to a record low .
Focus will also be on the showdown between Democratic presidential hopefuls Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders in Michigan , following the former vice president ’s near sweep on Super Tuesday .
Reporting by Sanjana Shivdas and Medha Singh in Bengaluru ; Additional reporting by Thyagaraju Adinarayan in London :
Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila

UPDATE 3-Japan to unveil coronavirus package, not yet eyeing extra budget .
2020-03-10 08:17:59 +00:00 .
* 430.8 bln yen package focuses on financing for small firms
* Finmin says no need yet for extra budget
* BOJ may take steps this month to ensure financing ( Adds size of spending ; paragraph 3 )
By Tetsushi Kajimoto and Daniel Leussink TOKYO , March 10 ( Reuters )
- Japan will unveil on Tuesday a second package of measures to offset the impact of a coronavirus outbreak , focusing on support for small businesses , Finance Minister Taro Aso said , as concerns mount about risks to the fragile economy .
However , Aso said there was no need yet for a bigger extra budget , since the fallout was not so widespread as that of the 2009 financial crisis , despite politicians ’ growing calls for large fiscal spending .
To help fund the package of 430.8 billion yen ( $ 4.1 billion ) , the government will tap the rest of this fiscal year ’s budget reserve of about 270 billion yen , two sources with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters .
The package underscores the pressure on policymakers to shore up fragile growth and stem the risk of corporate bankruptcies , as event cancellations and a tourism slump threaten to hit the economy hard .
The move is likely to affect the Bank of Japan ’s decision on steps to underpin the economy at its March 18 - 19 policy review .
The central bank will aim to ensure that companies hit by the virus outbreak do not face a financial squeeze before the end of the current fiscal year in March , Reuters has reported .
“ We need to ascertain the current situation , ” Aso told reporters after a cabinet meeting , adding
“ There ’s no saying ” whether the government needs an extra budget .
FINANCIAL SUPPORT
As well as support for businesses , the new package will beef up medical facilities and provide subsidies to parents who must take leave because of closed schools , Aso said .
“ Financing will focus on small and tiny businesses which face the need of financing over the next two to three weeks , ” he said .
The financial watchdog has urged credit associations and regional banks to hold hearings with small businesses about their financial situation , he added .
Japan will boost to 1.6 trillion yen its special financing for small- and mid - size firms hit by the virus , up from about 500 billion yen previously announced , according to a government document seen by Reuters .
As part of the second package , Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said a government - affiliated lender would offer funds effectively at no interest and without collateral to small firms whose sales slumped in the outbreak .
The virus has infected more than 111,000 people and killed more than 3,800 globally , with the accompanying economic disruption undermining Japan ’s export - led economy .
The world ’s third - largest economy shrank by the most since a 2014 sales tax hike in the quarter to December , intensifying fears of an economic downturn .
The outbreak comes at a critical time for Japan , shattering hopes of a gradual economic recovery fuelled by strong domestic demand just as it prepares to host the summer Olympic Games in July and August .
The epidemic has prompted heavy selling of riskier assets and a scramble into assets such as the yen , perceived as safe havens during times of financial distress .
( $ 1=103.7300 yen ) ( Reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto and Daniel Leussink ; Additional reporting by Takaya Yamaguchi ; Editing by Clarence Fernandez Editing by Richard Pullin and Clarence Fernandez )

Exclusive: Trading in VIX options froze after open - CBOE .
2020-03-09 23:33:23 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Trading in options on Wall Street ’s fear gauge was impossible in the first minutes of Monday ’s session due to an absence of prices from the market makers on whom trading depends , a representative of index operator CBOE Global Markets Inc ( CBOE.Z ) said .
FILE PHOTO :
People walk by the Chicago Board Options Exchange ( CBOE )
Global Markets headquarters building in Chicago , Illinois , U.S. , September 19 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Michael Hirtzer CBOE
Senior Trade Desk Specialist Ryan Stone told Reuters that VIX options were tradable at 9:51 a.m.
ET ( 1351 GMT ) but a lack of liquidity led to a lag of about seven minutes until the first trade , around 9:58 a.m.
ET .
When activity in options resumed , the VIX surged to its highest level since December 2008 .
The volatility spike occurred as global stock markets were melting down on fears about the spreading coronavirus and crashing oil prices .
It followed 15 - minute trading halts across U.S. exchanges , triggered by an opening 7 % decline in the SP 500 .SPX that set off circuit breakers .
The SP was last 7.6 % down and the VIX was up 12.5 points at 54.46 .
A spokesperson for CBOE later confirmed that the index series was available for trading at 9:51 a.m.
ET but that the first trades had not happened until later .
“ At 8:51 am CT , the available constituent series went into opening rotation , were available for trading , and by 8:54 am CT , an updated value of the VIX Index was subsequently published , ” she said .
“ At no time during this period did the VIX Index experience a technical issue . ”
According to CBOE ’s website , the VIX Index is calculated using standard SP 500 options and weekly SP 500 options that are listed for trading on CBOE Options .
“ What caused the delay in opening SPX VIX - with these being products - is we had to manually open them , ” Stone said .
“ We gave market makers the delay to ensure they were getting proper market data so they could properly quote these . ”
In line with its own rules , CBOE had earlier taken a “ precautionary measure ” to not open the VIX to trading before the bell as it was not able to calculate the index value at the time , after E - mini futures on the SP 500 EScv1 hit their 5 % lower limit in premarket trade .
The VIX index is widely used by traders as a measure of expected volatility of the SP 500 over the following 30 days and is traders ’ main way of protecting against or betting on sharp moves in stocks .
Reporting by Aaron Saldanha ;
Editing by Alden Bentley , Nick Zieminski and Rosalba O'Brien

PRECIOUS-Investors book profits after gold hits seven-year high on virus worries .
2020-03-09 09:54:21 +00:00 .
( Recasts , adds graphic , updates prices )
* China ’s exports contract sharply in first two months of 2020
* Global stocks fall , U.S. Treasury yields hit record low
* Yen jumps to more than three - year high against U.S. dollar
By K. Sathya Narayanan
March 9 ( Reuters ) -
Gold prices hit a more than seven - year high on Monday as a stock market rout on concerns over the widening coronavirus outbreak and its economic impact drove investors to safe - haven assets , although profit taking later unwound much of the metal ’s rise .
In a volatile session , spot gold touched its highest since December 2012 at $ 1,702.56 before being knocked back to stand 0.5 % lower at $ 1,665.68 per ounce by 0926 GMT .
U.S. gold futures shed 0.4 % to $ 1,666 .
“ Traders had put $ 1,700 as their ( price ) target , so there was a lot profit - taking once that target was reached , ” said Avtar Sandu , a senior commodities manager at Phillip Futures .
He added that part of the selling was because of the need to meet margin calls as the fast - spreading virus landed a sharp blow on global equities .
Jeffrey Halley , a senior market analyst at OANDA , also pointed to a slump in crude oil prices , which sent deflationary shocks through the market , as a cap on bullion ’s upside .
Losing more than a quarter of their value , oil prices were set for their biggest daily rout since the first Gulf War after Saudi Arabia cut its official prices .
Gold is often seen as a hedge against oil - led inflation .
Stock markets were lower across the board , with U.S. stock futures also down 5 % , while the Japanese yen jumped to a more than 3 - year high against the dollar and U.S. 10 - year Treasury yields fell to a record low .
Halley said worse than expected Chinese trade data and Italy ’s move to quarantine a quarter of its population because of the coronavirus had helped spook markets and prompt the flight to safety .
Pointing to the impact from the virus epidemic , China ’s exports contracted sharply in the first two months of the year while imports declined , data showed on Saturday .
A Reuters poll showed that the virus , which has now infected more than 110,000 people worldwide , likely halved China ’s economic growth in the current quarter compared with the previous three months .
In an attempt to contain its own coronavirus outbreak , Italy ordered a virtual lockdown across much of its wealthy north on Sunday which will impact some 16 million people and stay in force until April 3 .
Markets are expecting another rate cut from the U.S. Federal Reserve at its policy meeting on March 18 , following last week ’s emergency easing .
Among other precious metals , silver fell 2.6 % to $ 16.85 per ounce .
Palladium fell 7 % to $ 2,388 , while platinum was down 3.6 at $ 868.80 Reporting by K. Sathya Narayanan and Sumita Layek in Bengaluru ; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu , Kirsten Donovan

FX volatility surges as yen jumps; commodity currencies slump .
2020-03-09 09:19:51 +00:00 .
LONDON / SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) -
The dollar fell 3 % against the Japanese yen and commodity - linked currencies tanked on Monday , as a 30 % crash in the oil price and tumbling stock markets panicked investors and sent currency prices swinging wildly .
FILE PHOTO :
South Korean won , Chinese yuan and Japanese yen notes are seen on U.S. 100 dollar notes in this picture illustration taken in Seoul , South Korea , December 15 , 2015 .
REUTERS /
Kim Hong - Ji / File Photo
A gauge of volatility in the euro / dollar market - the world ’s most - traded currency pair - shot to its highest since April 2017 as the euro surged more than 1 % to its strongest since January 2019 .
Dollar - yen one - month implied volatility surged to an 11 - year high at 8.8 % as the dollar slid to its weakest since 2016 .
Investors are dumping dollars because of the collapse in U.S. Treasury yields .
The benchmark yield is at 0.47 % , after trading above 1 % a few days earlier , as traders shed risky assets and head for the safety of government bond markets .
Oil prices fell 30 % after Saudi Arabia pledged to slash prices and boost production following the collapse of an OPEC supply agreement .
[ O / R ]
That unnerved investors already rattled by more than a weak of wild moves in markets , as they struggled to assess the economic damage caused by the coronavirus .
“ Financial markets have suffered a rude awakening to notions that volatility was a thing of the past .
We ’re now seeing the kind of market dislocation not witnessed since the 2008 - 09 global financial crisis , ” ING analysts said , describing the set - up as a “ perfect storm ” for currency markets .
“ This all conspires to deliver an extreme flight to safety , into the likes of the JPY and the CHF , ” they wrote .
In hectic trade , the dollar fell 3 % against the yen to 101.58 , its lowest in more than three years .
The euro was last up 1 % at $ 1.1408 after earlier touching $ 1.1495 .
For a graphic on U.S. dollar vs Japanese yen : here
The dollar index dropped to its weakest since September 2018 before recovering somewhat to trade at 95.181 , down 0.3 % .
The Swiss franc added nearly 1 % against the dollar but was flat versus the euro .
Some of the biggest moves were in currencies linked to oil prices .
Norway ’s crown tumbled to record lows .
The euro added nearly 5 % to 10.997 and the dollar gained more than 3 % to 9.5455 crowns .
Canada ’s dollar dropped 1.3 % to C$ 1.3606 .
The Russian rouble and Mexican peso each fell as much as 6 % against the dollar .
The Australian and New Zealand dollars fell nearly 2 % .
“ It is totally wild , ” said Shafali Sachdev , head of FX Asia at BNP Paribas Wealth Management in Singapore .
“ This is not a train I want to be getting in front of , and how long it continues and where it goes from here is going to depend on how the situation evolves . ”
Further stock decline could drive even more gains in funding currencies , she said .
So far , the yen is headed for its largest three - day gain since the 2008 financial crisis .
It is up 9.4 % in a dozen trading days .
The gain is bad news for exporters and has raised concerns among policymakers in Japan .
A senior finance official warned that authorities were closely watching trade .
In times of low volatility - and currency market volatility has been at or near record lows for several years - investors borrow heavily in low- or negative - yielding currencies like the euro and yen to buy higher - yielding FX elsewhere .
Sudden risk aversion and volatility send investors panicking to reverse those positions , causing wild moves in currencies .
Reporting by Tommy Reggiori Wilkes , editing by Larry King

Australia shares fall most in over 11 years on virus fears, oil price crash .
2020-03-09 01:16:01 +00:00 .
* Benchmark stock index falls most since November 2008
* Energy stocks plunge by record 19 % in intraday trade
* Top miner BHP loses more than 13 % * New Zealand benchmark down 2.7 %
By Aby Jose Koilparambil
March 9 ( Reuters ) - Australian shares were hammered on Monday as investors scurried for safe havens on mounting fears of a deeper economic fallout from the rapidly spreading coronavirus outbreak , and oil prices dived more than 20 % .
The SP / ASX 200 index fell 5.6 % in its biggest intraday drop since Nov. 13 , 2008 and was down 338.50 points , or 5.5 % , by 0103 GMT .
It declined 2.8 % on Friday .
“ There is no handbrake at the moment .
It is complete capitulation , ” said James McGlew , executive director of corporate stockbroking at Argonaut .
“ More than the rising ( coronavirus ) cases domestically , Australia is hit due to the economic uncertainty surrounding its top trade partner China and you throw in the oil crisis , it is mayhem , ” he said , adding that : “ Fear is by far the greatest driver in this market today . ”
Oil futures suffered their biggest daily loss since 1991 on Sunday after Saudi Arabia slashed its official selling price and announced plans to raise crude production significantly , signalling the start of a price war after Russia balked at OPEC ’s proposed steep production cuts to stabilize prices .
By last week , Australia had recorded 60 cases of the virus while two elderly people had died , and the prime minister warned the public bill for treating infected patients could top $ 661 million .
Meanwhile , the number of people infected with coronavirus topped 107,000 globally as the outbreak reached more countries .
Energy stocks recorded their biggest ever intraday percentage drop , slumping as much as 19 % .
Oil Search and Santos lost about a quarter of their market values .
The metals mining index also bled heavily , dropping more than 6 % after prices of copper , aluminium and other industrial metals slumped on Friday .
Top miner BHP Group declined more than 13 % to its lowest level in nearly two years , while Rio Tinto dropped over 6 % in its worst session since June 2016 .
Financials too fell , shedding more than 5 % .
The Big Four lenders lost in a range of 4 % to 5 % .
Among gainers , gold stocks climbed more than 2.3 % as investors rushed to the safety of bullion .
Across the Tasman Sea , New Zealand ’s benchmark SP / NZX 50 index fell 2.7 % .
Air New Zealand slumped 4.4 % to its lowest level since November 2016 after the company withdrew its full - year earnings outlook and froze hiring , and said it would cut more capacity because of increased uncertainty over the scale of the outbreak .
( Reporting by Aby Jose Koilparambil in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Subhranshu Sahu )

High interest rates give Mexico room for stimulus on coronavirus: official .
2020-03-07 03:18:54 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO : Mexico 's Undersecretary of Finance and Public Credit Gabriel Yorio speaks during an interview with Reuters in Mexico City , Mexico September 11 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Edgard Garrido MEXICO CITY ( Reuters ) - Mexico ’s “ very high ” interest rates give it room to maneuver as it joins other countries readying measures to temper the impact of the coronavirus , Deputy Finance Minister Gabriel Yorio said on Friday .
Policymakers have taken a range of approaches to deal with the economic fallout from the coronavirus , from emergency interest rate cuts and big spending packages to a wait - and - see - stance and pledges of action if required .
“ In Mexico , we have a very high interest rate that gives a lot of room to maneuver , ” Yorio said at an event in Mexico City .
“ We need to be very accurate in how we do it , because if we overreact , we will impede economic activity more . ”
The Bank of Mexico cut its key rate by 25 basis points to 7.0 % on Feb. 13 .
A Citibanamex survey saw the central bank reducing rates to 6.5 % at its March 25 meeting after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut its policy rate by 50 basis points this week .
Yorio said the ministry was analyzing what kind of fiscal stimulus measures to apply and what role development banks might play .
“ The finance minister is in constant communication with the governor ( of the Bank of Mexico ) and I would assume that they ’re ready to take an action , ” Yorio said .
Earlier on Friday , the Mexican peso fell 2.7 % to its lowest level against the dollar since December 2018 before recovering .
Meanwhile , Mexico ’s benchmark stock index fell as much as 2.7 % in step with drops on U.S. stock markets .
Earlier this week , Mexican Finance Minister Arturo Herrera urged the private sector to boost investment to help counter the impact .
So far , Mexico has reported five cases of new coronavirus that has now infected more than 100,000 people around the world .
Reporting by Abraham Gonzalez ; Additional reporting by Miguel Angel Gutierrez ; Writing by Stefanie Eschenbacher ;
Editing by Dave Graham , Alistair Bell and Paul Simao

Canada posts larger-than-expected C$1.47 billion trade deficit .
2020-03-06 14:58:07 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
Shipping containers travel on railcars unloaded at Roberts Bank Superport in Delta , British Columbia , Canada January 15 , 2018 .
Picture taken January 15 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Ben Nelms OTTAWA ( Reuters ) - Canada posted a wider - than - expected trade deficit of C$ 1.47 billion ( $ 1.10 billion ) in January , largely on lower exports of motor vehicles and parts , official data showed on Friday .
Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast a shortfall of C$ 830 million .
Statscan revised the December deficit up to C$ 732 million from an initial C$ 370 million .
The value of exports fell by 2.0 % in January , the largest decline reported since the 5.6 % decline in June 2019 , to C$ 48.14 billion , with 9 of the 11 product sections tracked by Statscan posting declines .
Imports dropped by 0.5 % , with declines seen in six of the 11 product sections .
Canada ’s central bank slashed a key interest rate on Wednesday by half a percentage point , the most in more than a decade , as it worked to try and protect Canada ’s economy from a coronavirus outbreak and said it was prepared to ease further if needed .
Money markets anticipate another rate cut in April[BOCWATCH ] Statscan said on Friday it was monitoring the possible impacts of the coronavirus outbreak on Canada ’s international trade data , particularly with China , where the agency said “ substantial decreases in exports and imports with China ” had already been observed in January .
Canadian monthly exports to China declined 7.8 % in January , with lower exports of gold , potash and wood pulp reported , the agency said , while imports fell 12.1 % , mainly on lower cellphone imports .
Meanwhile , Statscan said overall exports of motor vehicles and parts saw the largest decline in January , falling 4.1 % on lower exports of passenger cars and trucks .
Temporary shutdowns at certain assembly plants and the recent closure of an Ontario - based General Motors plant contributed to the decline .
Canadian exports to the United States dropped 1.7 % , mainly because of the lower passenger car and truck shipments .
As a result , Canada ’s trade surplus with the United States narrowed to C$ 3.56 billion in January , the smallest surplus since February 2019 .
Imports of consumer goods fell 6.3 % on the month , largely due to a 26.1 % decline in pharmaceutical imports , notably on lower shipments of antiviral and cancer treatment drugs , the agency added .
Reporting by Kelsey Johnson in Ottawa ; Editing by Dale Smith and
Chizu Nomiyama

Oil slides nearly 4% after Russia rejects steeper OPEC+ cut .
2020-03-06 14:57:57 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Oil prices were down nearly 4 % on Friday on concerns that OPEC might not go ahead with steeper oil output cuts to bolster prices after Reuters reported that Russia rejected the proposal .
FILE PHOTO :
Oil pump jacks work at sunset near Midland , Texas , U.S. , August 21 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Jessica Lutz / File Photo Brent and WTI crude futures tumbled by nearly 6 % on the news , with the close to $ 3 drop taking Brent crude to its lowest since July 2017 while WTI was at its weakest since December 2018 .
By 1441 GMT Brent crude was down $ 1.93 , or 3.9 % , at $ 48.06 a barrel .
U.S West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) was down $ 1.93 , or 4.2 % , at $ 43.97 .
A Russian high - level source told Reuters on Friday that Moscow would not back an OPEC call for extra reductions in oil output and would agree only to an extension of existing cuts by OPEC and its allies , a group known as OPEC+ .
“ What counts really is what Saudi Arabia does .
If Russia joined , it will not add substantially .
We need to see if OPEC goes ahead all alone , ” said Olivier Jakob , of the Petromatrix consultancy .
One Middle East source said that OPEC had no intention of pursuing deeper cuts without Russia .
OPEC is pushing for an additional 1.5 million barrels per day ( bpd ) of cuts until the end of 2020 .
Sources at the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) confirmed Russia ’s position and a formal OPEC+ meeting was under way after hours of delay .
An OPEC+ delegate said there were “ positive signs ” after a separate , earlier OPEC+ meeting had finished .
Non - OPEC states were expected to contribute 500,000 bpd to the overall extra cut , OPEC ministers said .
The new deal would have meant OPEC+ production curbs amounting to a total of 3.6 million bpd , or about 3.6 % of global supply .
“ Our balances suggest that at least 2 million bpd needs to be removed from the market during Q2 to ensure a stabilisation in oil prices , ” said Bjoernar Tonhaugen , head of oil markets at Rystad Energy .
“ If this results in OPEC not going through with their own proposed 1 million bpd cuts in Q2 , the result ... could be devastating .
Brent could swiftly drop 15 % to the low $ 40s and WTI to the high $ 30s in this scenario . ”
WIDER ECONOMY
Global stock markets tumbled on Friday as disruptions to business from the spreading coronavirus epidemic worsened .
European shares opened sharply lower , with travel stocks bearing the brunt .
However , after marking its worst weekly performance since the 2008 financial crisis a week ago , the MSCI All - Country World Index was up 1.7 % on the week .
MKTS / GLOB
Even with the deeper cut , Goldman Sachs said the OPEC+ deal would not have prevented a global oil market surplus in the second quarter .
The bank maintained its Brent price forecast at $ 45 a barrel in April .
“ Ultimately , a rebound in demand , not supply cuts , will be the necessary catalyst for a sustainable rebound in prices , ” the bank said .
Saudi Arabia ’s state oil company told buyers that is has delayed publishing its crude oil official selling prices ( OSP ) for April until after the OPEC+ meeting .
Meanwhile , ANZ said that global oil consumption could fall by 1.6 million bpd in the first half of 2020 and contract by about 300,000 bpd for the full year .
“ Growth may return in H2 ( second half of 2020 ) but is unlikely to be enough to offset the losses , ” the bank said .
Reporting by Julia Payne ;
Editing by David Goodman

Exclusive: Tencent-backed WeDoctor invites banks to lead $1 billion Hong Kong IPO, sources say .
2020-03-06 09:05:40 +00:00 .
HONG KONG ( Reuters ) - WeDoctor will push ahead with a Hong Kong listing and invite pitches from investments banks next week to lead an IPO valuing the Chinese healthcare platform at up to $ 10 billion , two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said .
FILE PHOTO :
A Tencent sign is seen at the World Internet Conference ( WIC ) in Wuzhen , Zhejiang province , China , October 20 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Aly Song / File Photo
The Hangzhou - based company , which is backed by Tencent Holdings Ltd ( 0700.HK ) and Goldman Sachs ( GS.N ) , could look to raise up to $ 1 billion in the IPO , and could be among the first major Hong Kong listings since the coronavirus outbreak began .
WeDoctor has invited investment banks in Hong Kong and mainland China to a ‘ beauty parade ’ , which will be held via video conferencing and in person at the company ’s offices for bankers located in China , three sources said .
The company ’s new chief financial officer John Cai , who is set to join from WeDoctor shareholder and strategic partner AIA ( 1299.HK ) where he was chief executive , will take part in the discussions from Hong Kong with bankers in the city .
Founded in 2010 by artificial intelligence expert Jerry Liao , WeDoctor has more than 210 million registered users mainly in China for its online appointment booking , prescription and diagnosis services .
It is also linked to about 3,200 hospitals and 360,000 doctors .
The planned float , which will likely take place in the second half of the year , will include its core business - online healthcare services , one source said .
It is considering whether to exclude some units such as cloud - services from the IPO .
WeDoctor declined to comment on its IPO plans .
The deal would be a sign that Hong Kong ’s equity capital markets , which have been battered by a coronavirus - led slowdown , are set to regain some confidence in the second quarter of 2020 .
WeDoctor raised $ 500 millihere in a private funding round in May 2018 which valued the company at $ 5.5 billion at the time .
It is among a spate of technology - driven firms looking to shake up China ’s overburdened public healthcare market , with increasingly affluent consumers willing to pay for ways to get more convenient access to doctors and health services .
Its move also comes two years after rival Ping An Good Doctor , formally known as Ping An Healthcare and Technology Co Ltd ( 1833.HK ) , raised $ 1.1 billion in an IPO , but saw its shares later tumble as investors worried about its high valuation .
Reporting by Scott Murdoch and Julie Zhu ;
Editing by Alexander Smith

Cricket-No current threat to South Africa series, IPL - Indian board .
2020-03-05 10:53:34 +00:00 .
MUMBAI , March 5 ( Reuters ) -
The Indian cricket board is monitoring the development of the coronavirus outbreak in the country but says there is no current threat to its flagship Indian Premier League , with the franchise - based tournament scheduled to start later this month .
The fast - spreading coronavirus has reached some 80 nations with more new cases now reported outside China where the flu - like illness first emerged in the central city of Wuhan late last year .
The virus has killed more than 3,200 , most of them in China .
It has infected more than 95,000 people globally with India reporting 29 confirmed cases .
The 13th season of the eight - team IPL , which is played in cricket ’s shortest Twenty20 format , is scheduled to begin on March 29 with a match between defending champions Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings .
The national team , however , will take on South Africa for three one - day internationals before that , starting with the first match in the northern Indian city of Dharamsala next Thursday .
“ We are keeping a tab on the situation .
Before the IPL we have the South Africa series .
Everything is on schedule currently , ” IPL governing council chairman Brijesh Patel told Reuters on Thursday .
Coronavirus has had a major impact on sports with a number of international sporting events either cancelled or postponed after the outbreak .
The cash - rich IPL , featuring celebrity owners and top business houses , draws the world ’s top cricketers and will run for seven weeks with the final scheduled for May 17 .
The IPL ’s brand value has soared over the years since its 2008 launch and grew to an estimated $ 6.8 billion in 2019 , according to New York - based corporate finance advisory firm Duff Phelps .
( Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly ; editing by Toby Davis )

UPDATE 2-Next BoE governor Bailey sees coronavirus help for UK firms .
2020-03-04 16:56:55 +00:00 .
* Coronavirus response top priority , next BoE head Bailey says * Bailey sees financial help for firms hit by disruption
* Incoming governor defends record as boss of regulator
* Bailey is due to replace Mark Carney as governor on March 16 ( Adds details )
By David Milliken and Elizabeth Howcroft LONDON , March 4 ( Reuters ) - Andrew Bailey , set to become Bank of England governor just as Britain is facing an economic hit from coronavirus , said financial support would probably have to be rushed out for companies struggling with disruption caused by the outbreak .
Investors have ramped up their bets that BoE will cut interest rates , possibly before the first scheduled policy announcement under Bailey on March 26 , as the spread of the virus takes its toll on the global economy and supply chains .
Bailey said the impact of coronavirus would be his top priority when he moves from his current job as head of the Financial Conduct Authority ( FCA ) regulator to replace Mark Carney as BoE governor on March 16 .
“ I am not in any sense reducing the importance of monetary policy , ( but ) all the focus is on monetary policy , ” Bailey told parliament ’s Treasury Committee on Wednesday .
“ I think it is quite reasonable to expect we are going to have to provide ... some form of supply chain finance in the not very distant future now to ensure that the effects of this shock from the virus are not damaging to many forms of activity . ”
British finance minister Rishi Sunak is due to announce a budget statement on March 11 .
Business surveys have shown the disruption is starting to affect Britain ’s economy as it led to a record increase in measures of delivery times for British manufacturers .
Bailey said smaller companies in particular would need support , and quickly .
On Tuesday , the U.S. Federal Reserve announced a surprise interest rate cut , raising speculation that the BoE and other central banks would follow suit .
The Bank of Canada cut rates as Bailey answered questions in parliament .
On monetary policy , Bailey echoed views expressed by top BoE officials , saying the central bank ’s benchmark rate could be lowered to about 0.1 % from 0.75 % now , and that the BoE ’s firepower was “ uncomfortably close ” to the average size of rate cuts deployed to counter past economic downturns .
PROUD ?
Bailey , a former BoE deputy governor with 30 years ’ experience at the central bank , has been criticised in his current job for being too lenient on financial firms that engaged in misconduct .
He faced question after question - some of them pointed - about his record at the FCA from lawmakers on Wednesday .
“ I am proud of what we have achieved .
I am not proud of some of the things that have happened during my time , ” Bailey replied , saying the FCA ’s powers were restricted by law .
When asked by the Treasury Committee ’s chair Mel Stride if he was sufficiently nimble to head a major central bank , Bailey recalled how he helped prevent a collapse of Britain ’s banking system over a decade ago when he was a senior BoE official .
“ We had to do things in short order during that ( financial crisis ) period which were pretty unprecedented , absolutely unprecedented in the history of certainly the Bank , and we had to do them at short notice , ” Bailey said .
Another lawmaker questioned if he would really “ speak truth to power ” and uphold the BoE ’s independence from the government .
“ Yes , ” replied Bailey .
( Additional reporting by Paul Sandle , Sarah Young and Costas Pitas , writing by Andy Bruce ;
editing by William Schomberg / Mark Heinrich )

CORRECTED-Egypt plans to sell $500 mln Banque du Caire stake via IPO in April- chairman .
2020-03-04 13:46:19 +00:00 .
( Corrects net profit figure in final paragraph to 3.96 billion Egyptian pounds )
By Patrick Werr CAIRO , March 3 ( Reuters ) - Egypt aims to sell a minority stake in state - owned Banque du Caire in an initial public offering ( IPO ) starting mid - April in a sale worth about $ 500 million , provided investor interest holds up in the face of the coronavirus , its chairman said .
It would be Egypt ’s biggest sale of state assets since 2006 .
The bank is part of a revived programme of selling shares in a long list of state companies that was announced three years ago but has faced repeated delays .
“ Our plan is to go with the IPO by mid - April , but it depends on the market conditions .
For us , if you ’re talking about the readiness of the bank , we are very ready , ” Chairman Tarek Fayed said in an interview .
“ Definitely , lots of stuff has been evolving in the last two weeks , the coronavirus , ” Fayed said , but he also said that during a trip overseas last week he found continued investor interest .
“ The appetite is still strong .
But nobody knows what could happen in the next 10 to 15 days . ”
Fayed said he was in discussions with a couple of cornerstone investors who would be guaranteed participation to strengthen the offer .
Multilateral development institutions would also be involved at an early stage .
“ The programme allows us to go up to 45 % .
But the main objective is to raise funds in the vicinity of $ 500 million .
So if we translate the $ 500 million into a percentage this could leave us in the range of 20 % to 30 % of the float of the bank ’s ownership , ” Fayed said .
Of this , $ 50 million to $ 75 million would be sold to one or more anchor investors , Fayed said .
Banque du Caire is owned by state - owned Banque Misr , which in the mid-2000s took over Banque du Caire ’s nonperforming loans in exchange for assets .
With assets of 183.4 billion Egyptian pounds ( $ 11.70 billion ) at the end of 2019 , Banque du Caire ranks sixth or seventh among Egyptian banks .
STOCK EXCHANGE BOOST
Fayed said the sale would be a spur to the Egyptian stock exchange , where activity has dwindled in the past few years .
Egypt in 2008 came close to selling Banque du Caire to the National Bank of Greece , but the deal never closed , partly because of a backlash against privatisations .
The last sale of state assets on a similar or larger scale was in 2006 , when Italy ’s Intesa Sanpaolo bought 80 % of Bank of Alexandria for $ 1.6 billion .
A former Citibank employee , Fayed worked for a decade at Egypt ’s central bank where he oversaw banking supervision and financial stability before taking over as Banque du Caire ’s chairman and CEO in January 2018 .
“ When we came , myself , a new board , and new management team , we came up with a totally different approach , ” he said .
Fayed said his strategy had been to take advantage the high liquidity in Egypt ’s banking system and Banque du Caire itself by tapping different lending activities and expanding products .
The bank doubled its corporate book in the last two years to more than 40 billion Egyptian pounds and increased its number of corporate clients to more than 400 from 170 .
It also expanded its profitable microfinance business , in which Banque du Caire ’s 300,000 clients account for 25 % of the Egyptian microfinance market , where margins can reach 16 % .
The new strategy has been paying off .
The bank said net profit jumped 59 % in 2019 to 3.96 billion pounds .
( $ 1 = 15.6700 Egyptian pounds ) ( Reporting by Patrick Werr Editing by Aidan Lewis and Jane Merriman )

ECB holds emergency meeting on coronavirus but leaves out policy .
2020-03-04 10:58:40 +00:00 .
The European Central Bank ( ECB ) logo is pictured before a news conference on the outcome of the meeting of the Governing Council in Frankfurt , Germany , January 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Ralph Orlowski FRANKFURT ( Reuters ) - European Central Bank policymakers held an unscheduled telephone conference call late on Tuesday to discuss their emergency response to the coronavirus outbreak but policy action was not on the agenda , five sources told Reuters .
The sources acknowledged the ECB was under increasing pressure to lower its policy rate further after a surprise Federal Reserve cut on Tuesday .
But rate - setters were still hoping to hold out until their scheduled meeting on March 12 .
They used Tuesday ’s call to discuss how the euro zone ’s 19 central banks would cooperate in an emergency , such as ensuring there would be enough banknotes to go round even if panic - stricken euro zone citizens started to stockpile cash , the sources said .
Other topics included discussion of cancelling events , coping with staff shortages and collecting more detailed information from each country about the economic fallout of the disease , which has killed more than 3,000 people worldwide .
There was no debate on whether the ECB should enact policy measures and policymakers remained convinced that it was mainly for governments to respond to the outbreak , the sources added .
An ECB spokesman declined to comment .
The bank ’s next scheduled meeting is on March 12 .
ECB President Christine Lagarde said on Monday the bank would be ready to take “ targeted ” measures if needed .
Sources close to the discussion said the main focus of such measures would be providing financing and liquidity to small and medium - sized enterprises .
Markets now almost fully price in a 10 - basis - point cut in the ECB ’s minus 0.5 % deposit rate next Thursday .
Separately , the ECB called off public forums that were to form an important part of its one - year policy review because of concerns about the coronavirus outbreak , it said in a statement on Wednesday .
Editing by Kevin Liffey and Timothy Heritage

Work on Fukushima plant, halted during 2016 G7 summit, to continue during Tokyo Olympics .
2020-03-04 08:19:48 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) -
Decommissioning work at Japan ’s crippled Fukushima nuclear power station , halted during a G7 summit in Japan in 2016 , will not stop during this summer ’s Tokyo Olympics , the plant operator said .
FILE PHOTO :
Workers are seen near storage tanks for radioactive water at Tokyo Electric Power Co 's ( TEPCO ) tsunami - crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Okuma town , Fukushima prefecture , Japan January 15 , 2020 .
Picture taken January 15 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Aaron Sheldrick
There are about a third fewer workers now - 4,000 compared with 6,000 in 2016 - which makes the decision to keep working easier , said Akira Ono , Tokyo Electric Power Co ’s ( Tepco ) chief decommissioning officer .
“ When I was the plant manager , I suspended operations at the time of the Ise - Shima summit .
But the situation is totally different now , ” Ono told Reuters in an interview .
Although the coronavirus outbreak - which has sickened more than 1,000 Japanese - has disrupted supply chains , there has been no shortage of protective gear at the plant , he added .
Workers must wear special clothing to protect them from residual radiation in some parts of the facility .
“ There was a time when coverall supply became quite tight ...
But after talking with various sources , we are now sure that we can procure what we need , ” Ono said in the interview conducted on Tuesday but embargoed till Wednesday .
A powerful earthquake and tsunami hit eastern Japan in March 2011 and knocked out cooling systems at Tepco ’s Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant , triggering the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl in 1986 .
Since then , the operator has been working to clean up the damage and contain any spread of radiation .
For the last nine years , Tepco has been pouring water over melted reactor cores to keep them cool .
Nearly 1.2 million tonnes of tainted water , enough to fill 480 Olympic - sized swimming pools , is stored at the plant .
The company treats the water to remove most radioactive material .
A government panel reviewing potential disposal methods has recommended releasing the water into the sea after dilution .
Local residents , fishermen in particular , strongly oppose the ocean discharge .
Ono said that the plant will likely run out of tank space by summer 2022 .
“ The time is getting near , ” Ono said , referring to a decision on the disposal method .
“ We are cutting it very close . ”
Japanese trade and industry minister Hiroshi Kajiyama said last month the government would decide after hearing opinions from people in local communities and others , without committing to a deadline .
Reporting by Kiyoshi Takenaka ;
Editing by Gerry Doyle

Coronavirus forces IMF, World Bank switch to virtual Spring Meetings .
2020-03-03 19:07:28 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -
The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank , citing growing concerns about the fast - spreading coronavirus , on Tuesday said they will adopt a “ virtual format ” for their Spring Meetings instead of convening in person in Washington .
FILE PHOTO :
The International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) headquarters building is seen ahead of the IMF / World Bank spring meetings in Washington , U.S. , April 8 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Yuri Gripas / File Photo
The institutions ’ Spring Meetings , scheduled this year for April 17 - 19 , usually bring some 10,000 government officials , business people , civil society representatives and journalists from across the globe to a tightly packed , two - block area of downtown Washington that houses their headquarters .
The institutions began considering the move , first reported by Reuters last week , as the disease continued to spread rapidly around the world after emerging in China in late December .
There are now almost 91,000 cases globally , including 80,000 in China , and over 3,000 people have died .
Infections have appeared in 77 countries and territories outside China , with Argentina the latest to report its first case .
The coronavirus outbreak is plunging the world economy into its worst downturn since the global financial crisis more than 10 years ago , the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development warned on Monday .
IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva and World Bank President David Malpass said in a joint statement that their goal was to serve their membership effectively while ensuring the health and safety of participants and staff .
They said the institutions would leverage IT - related and virtual connection capabilities to hold essential policy consultations , while continuing to share IMF and World Bank analyses .
“ With this adapted format , we are confident that our member countries will be able to effectively engage on pressing global economic issues at these Spring Meetings , ” they said .
An IMF official said that one possible exception to the virtual meetings shift is that the 24 - member International Monetary and Financial Committee - the Fund ’s steering committee - may still meet face to face .
Details for the meeting are still being worked out , the official said .
The equivalent panel at the World Bank , the Development Committee , is planning to meet in a virtual format , a World Bank spokesman said .
The rapid spread of the virus raised concerns inside the IMF and the World Bank that the close interactions among people from their 189 member countries at the Spring Meetings could inadvertently contribute to the problem .
After the Sept. 11 , 2001 attacks on New York and Washington , the IMF and World Bank canceled their annual meetings scheduled for later that month in the U.S. capital .
The meetings were reconvened in November 2001 in Ottawa , Canada .
The by - laws of both institutions state that their annual meetings of boards of governors , normally held in the fall , must be held in person .
The two institutions released a fact sheet about the decision . here
Reporting by Andrea Shalal and David Lawder ;
Editing by Franklin Paul , Sandra Maler and Dan Grebler

Australian shares rebound 2% on RBA rate-cut hopes; NZ jumps .
2020-03-03 01:20:12 +00:00 .
* ASX 200 rises after seven straight sessions of losses * RBA likely to trim rates by 25 bps later in the day * NZ shares mark best intraday gain since August 2011
By Niyati Shetty
March 3 ( Reuters ) -
Australian shares rose 2 % on Tuesday after seven straight sessions of declines , as investors priced in a possible rate cut by the central bank to help cushion an economic blow from the coronavirus outbreak .
The SP / ASX 200 index was up 1.9 % , or 122.9 points , at 6,514.4 by 0100 GMT , after shedding 10.8 % in the last seven sessions - its longest losing streak since September 2018 .
The Reserve Bank of Australia is expected to cut its cash rate to a new low of 0.5 % from 0.75 % at its monthly review later in the day , as investors pinned hopes on a coordinated global monetary policy response after last week ’s stock market plunge .
Fears of a pandemic rattled markets last week , wiping more than $ 5 trillion from global share values , and stoking widespread expectations of monetary policy easing .
Australian financial futures are now almost fully pricing in a quarter point cut to the cash rate .
Last week , futures implied a one - in - five chance of such a move .
“ Given Australia ’s current moderate growth environment , limited room for monetary easing and the COVID-19 impact on supply chains and demand , we think it is necessary for fiscal policy to also support growth , ” Cherelle Murphy , a senior economist at ANZ Research , said in a note .
Financials gained 1.5 % , with the “ Big Four ” banks trading in positive territory .
Westpac Banking Corp and National Australia Bank rose about 2 % each .
The tech sector jumped nearly 5 % , its best intraday gain in 18 months , tracking Wall Street peers .
Software maker Xero Ltd added 7.4 % and buy - now - pay - later firm Afterpay Ltd surged 8.3 % .
Healthcare firms climbed as much as 3.4 % , their biggest in six months .
Drugmaker CSL Ltd added 3.3 % , while U.S.-based Resmed Inc gained 6.3 % .
Meanwhile , global miner BHP Group added up to 3.4 % , Rio Tinto Ltd advanced 4.7 % and Fortescue Metals Group climbed 5.5 % , supported by substantial gains in iron ore prices on Monday .
Across the Tasman Sea , New Zealand ’s benchmark SP / NZX 50 index jumped as much as 3.7 % in its best intraday gain since August 2011 .
The bourse was up 3 % , or 334.87 points , at 11,439.97 by 0100 GMT .
Air New Zealand Ltd and Tourism Holdings Ltd were the best performers on the index , adding up to 10.1 % and 7.9 % , respectively .
( Reporting by Niyati Shetty in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Subhranshu Sahu )

Oil up over 3% as hopes of OPEC cut, stimulus counter virus gloom .
2020-03-02 11:25:33 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Oil prices jumped more than 3 % on Monday , reversing an earlier fall to multi - year lows as hopes of a deeper cut in output by OPEC and stimulus from central banks countered worries about damage to demand from the coronavirus outbreak .
FILE PHOTO :
Pump jacks operate at sunset in Midland , Texas , U.S. , February 11 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Nick Oxford / File Photo Brent crude LCOc1 was at $ 51.91 a barrel , up $ 1.71 or 3.4 % , by 0925 GMT , having earlier hit its lowest since July 2017 at $ 48.40 .
Across the Atlantic , U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude CLc1 hit a 14 - month low of $ 43.32 before recovering to $ 46.15 , up $ 1.39 , or 3.1 % .
It was the first gain for both benchmarks after six sessions of losses triggered by coronavirus worries .
The virus , which originated in China , has killed nearly 3,000 people and roiled global markets as investors brace for a steep knock to world growth .
Equities underwent their biggest rout since the 2008 financial crisis last week although European and Asian shares steadied on Monday .
“ Everybody is afraid to miss the rebound in oil , metals and equities , ” said Bjarne Schieldrop , chief commodities analyst at SEB Markets .
“ Signs of monetary and fiscal stimulus as well as possible further production cuts from OPEC+ later in the week are driving a rebound in both commodities and equities this morning . ”
The scale of losses last week led financial markets to price in policy responses from the U.S. Federal Reserve to the Bank of Japan , which indicated on Monday it would take necessary steps to stabilise financial markets .
Data released over the weekend by China , the world ’s top energy consumer , dragged on oil prices earlier in the session .
Factory activity in the country shrank at the fastest pace ever in February , underscoring the colossal damage from the coronavirus outbreak on its economy ..
However , several key members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) are mulling an additional production cut in the second quarter with fears the virus outbreak will erode oil demand .
The previous proposal was for an additional output cut of 600,000 bpd .
Oil prices are down more than 20 % since the start of the year despite OPEC and its allies including Russia , a grouping known as OPEC+ , curbing oil output by 1.7 million bpd under a deal that runs to the end of March .
“ Inaction by OPEC+ would likely trigger another potentially severe bout of selling , ” analysts at Fitch Solutions have said .
They said that although current prices would incentivize Russia to agree to further output cuts , they would likely be of a short duration , for example , three months , with the barrels brought immediately back to market thereafter .
Additional reporting by Florence Tan ;
Editing by Kirsten Donovan

bank lobby economist predicts global rate cut coming ... this Wednesday .
2020-03-01 22:40:59 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
The Federal Reserve Board building on Constitution Avenue is pictured in Washington , U.S. , March 27 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Brendan McDermid WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -
Investors battered by the breathtaking drop in global stock markets on coronavirus fears are ever more convinced the world ’s big central banks , including the Federal Reserve , will soon step in to try to quell the storm .
Against that , the top economist for the U.S. bank lobby - a former Fed insider - issued a remarkably specific prediction on Sunday that the rescue is nigh .
In a blog titled " Do n't keep your powder dry " here , Bill Nelson , chief economist at the Bank Policy Institute who worked on the Fed 's responses to the 2007 - 2008 financial crisis , predicted :* * A coordinated global interest rate cut by the top central banks , such as the one executed at the height of the crisis in October 2008 by the Fed and five other central banks .
They will possibly include in this action the People 's Bank of China and the Hong Kong Monetory Authority , the two banks whose economies have so far suffered most from the outbreak .
*
* It will happen this Wednesday , March 4 .
Nelson noted that the previous big coordinated actions in December 2007 , October 2008 and November 2011 all occurred on a Wednesday .
*
* It will happen before the U.S. stock market opens , either 7 a.m. or 8 a.m. ET ( 1200 or 1300 GMT ) .
*
* It will be big : half a percentage point at least .
The Fed ’s current benchmark lending rate is set in a range of 1.50 - 1.75 % , and rate futures markets are pricing in a cut of at least a quarter percentage point at the Fed ’s next scheduled meeting March 17 - 18 .
“ The only way to get a positive market reaction is to deliver more than expected , ” he wrote .
*
* It will include “ forward guidance ” - a central bank term for some form of pledge regarding future policy action .
Nelson said he would not be surprised to see something aimed at preventing a further erosion of inflation , something the Fed and other central banks have been battling for most of the past decade .
His suggestion : The Fed pledges not to raise rates or take other policy tightening actions until its preferred measure of inflation is above its formal target of 2 % for six months .
Alongside his predictions for a globally coordinated move - something many investors and economists worry could well fall short of what 's needed because of depleted tool kits at the world 's big central banks - Nelson in a related post here said the Fed could loosen a number of requirements and other regulations on U.S. banks to help keep credit moving .
Regarding the rate cut , however , Nelson does offer one big caveat : “ If markets are calm Monday and Tuesday , I ’m not sure what will happen . ”
Reporting by Dan Burns ; Editing by Daniel
Wallis

MIDEAST STOCKS-Kuwait, other bourses sink as coronavirus worries intensify .
2020-03-01 13:36:47 +00:00 .
* Kuwait sees biggest ever intraday fall * Dubai hits lowest since December 2018
* Egypt sees biggest fall in over 7 years *
In Saudi 190 stocks were in red of 199 By Ateeq Shariff March 1 ( Reuters ) -
Middle Eastern stocks plunged on Sunday , with Kuwait falling the most , as the spread of coronavirus stoked fears that outbreak could hurt the global economy and oil prices .
Leaders in Europe , the Middle East and the Americas rolled out bans on big gatherings and stricter travel restrictions as cases of the virus spread around the world .
In Kuwait , the index , which traded after a three session break , slumped 11 % , its biggest ever intraday fall , dragged down by a 14.5 % fall in National Bank of Kuwait .
Kuwait , which reported 46 people infected with the coronavirus , called on its citizens to avoid travelling over concerns about the spread of the disease .
Egypt tumbled 6 % , its biggest intraday fall since November 2012 .
Commercial International Bank slid 6 % , whereas Eastern Company was down 5.9 % .
Egyptian exchange data showed that foreign investors were net sellers .
Saudi Arabia 's benchmark index retreated 3.7 % , its biggest intraday fall since January 2016 , bringing this year 's losses to 12.5 % .
Al Rajhi Bank fell 3.9 % , while Saudi Public Transport plunged 10 % , to become top loser on the index .
Saudi Arabia on Thursday suspended the entry of foreigners for the Umrah pilgrimage and tourism from countries where the coronavirus has spread .
Oil giant Saudi Aramco closed down 2.1 % to 32.65 riyals ( $ 8.70 ) .
Dubai 's index fell 4.5 % , touching its lowest since December 2018 , with Emirates NBD Bank declining 6.8 % and Emaar Properties decreasing 5.1 % .
The Abu Dhabi index lost 3.6 % , its biggest intraday fall since January 2016 .
First Abu Dhabi Bank dropped 3.9 % , while telco
Etisalat ended down 3.2 % .
The central bank of the United Arab Emirates on Saturday advised banks to reschedule loans and reduce fees and commissions as part of measures to mitigate the economic effects of the coronavirus outbreak .
The UAE is a regional business hub and major transit point for passengers travelling to China and other destinations in Asia .
The country has reported 21 people infected with the coronavirus , five of whom have recovered .
Qatar , which reported its first coronavirus case , was close for a public holiday .
SAUDI ARABIA fell 3.7 % to 7,345 points ABU DHABI lost 3.6 % to 4,724 points DUBAI sank 4.4 % to 2,474 points EGYPT down 6 % to 12,223 points BAHRAIN declined 3.4 % to 1,605 points OMAN slipped 1.2 % to 4,081 points KUWAIT plunged 11 % at 5,991 points ( $ 1 = 3.7516 riyals )
( Reporting by Ateeq Shariff in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Mark Potter )

Options markets point to a potential bounce for stocks .
2020-02-29 01:55:37 +00:00 .
NEW YORK , Feb 28 ( Reuters ) -
Activity in stock options points to a possible rebound for battered U.S. equities , after markets notched their steepest weekly drop since the financial crisis as the coronavirus outbreak accelerated beyond China ’s borders .
The rapid rise in market volatility has lifted the price of short term futures on the Cboe Volatility Index above longer term ones - an event that has historically been followed by a 7 % median gain for the benchmark SP 500 within 30 days , according to research from market analytics firm Arbor Data Science .
The term structure inversion , as the pattern is known , has “ been a historically reliable indicator , but we ’ve never had coronavirus before , ” said Christopher Murphy , co - head of derivatives at Susquehanna Financial Group .
The VIX , known as “ Wall Street ’s fear gauge , ” hit its highest level since February 2018 and ended at 40.11 on Friday .
Just a week ago , it was trading at 17.08 .
The SP 500 fell 11.5 % on the week .
Uncertainty over the trajectory of the virus and its economic fallout will likely complicate the picture for investors looking to determine an entry point into stocks by trying to discern potential peaks in volatility , some strategists said .
Even so , some investment managers have begun to suggest that selling may be nearing a crescendo .
After their sharp decline this week , U.S. stocks are closer to fair value , said Arnim Holzer , macro and correlation defense strategist at EAB Investment Advisors .
“ We ’re moving into the zone where the SP has earned its keep , ” he said .
The SP 500 has notched a weekly drop of 10 % or more only 14 times in its history , and those declines have been followed by an average gain of 3.5 % , data from Bespoke Investment showed .
Gains over the next three months have averaged 5.6 % , although the index has fallen more than it has risen in that time period , suggesting that the period after such big drops is usually volatile for markets .
Other corners of the options market demonstrated investor caution but not excessive fear , said RBC Capital Markets equity derivatives strategist Amy Wu Silverman .
Trading , in her view , reflected investors moving to realize gains on their downside protection but often not replacing those hedges with positions guarding against a further fall .
At the same time , demand for put options used for downside protection in relation to call options used for upside participation has not skyrocketed .
Aside from a spike on Thursday , skew , which measures demand for puts versus calls , has remained near its average levels over the past six months for the SPDR SP 500 ETF Trust , according to data from options analytics firm Trade Alert .
That may be because investors saw more declines in stocks coming as the epidemic first unfolded in China before spreading outside the country , said Stacey Gilbert , portfolio manager for derivatives at Glenmede Investment Management .
While there is evidence some investors may not have hit the panic button , they do n’t appear to have let down their guard , either .
Expectations for further gyrations in U.S. equities remain elevated in relation to actual stock moves , Holzer at EAB Investment Advisors said .
The 30 - day implied volatility for SPY was at 44 % on Friday , whereas its realized volatility was at 25.3 % , according to Trade Alert .
That gap suggests investors have lingering concerns about further selling .
Even though equities have sold off significantly , there still remains potential for moves in other asset classes , such as credit , to cause ripples across markets , Holzer said .
( Reporting by April Joyner ;
Editing by Ira Iosebashvili and Daniel Wallis )

Russian fertiliser producer boosted by coronavirus shutdowns .
2020-02-28 13:59:35 +00:00 .
MOSCOW , Feb 28 ( Reuters ) -
The outbreak of a new coronavirus in China ’s Hubei province has struck the heart of the country ’s fertiliser sector , prompting a wave of orders for a small plant in southern Russia .
The Lermontov plant in the mountainous North Caucasus region can produce about 5,000 tonnes a month of crop nutrient monoammonium phosphate among other products .
It has doubled its planned deliveries this quarter and has orders for more than twice its current output .
“ We are practically not sleeping ...
Phone on the bedside table , clients calling , we ’re jumping up to reply because the moment is so hot , ” said Edward Gurary , chief commercial officer of the plant ’s trading arm , Cashmere Capital .
“ I had a fairly balanced shipping plan for the first quarter and now that plan has been doubled .
We have twice as many orders as production capacity .
And now we are juggling . ”
The upturn comes as major international trading firms that previously relied on supplies from China are scrambling to source their goods .
“ We have had an absolute flood of requests from clients who have not been interested in our products in the past , opting for cheaper Chinese products instead , ” Gurary said .
Demand surged early this month after China introduced restrictions aimed at preventing the spread of the virus , including widespread shutdowns in Hubei province , where the outbreak originated .
Hubei is home to 60 - 65 % of Chinese phosphate production , according to analysts at brokerage Bernstein .
About 60 % of Hubei ’s phosphate production has now been halted and shipments of phosphate - based fertilisers from China fell by around 700,000 tonnes in February , said Russian fertiliser major Phosagro .
United States - based producer Mosaic has said it expects a global phosphate shortfall of 2 million tonnes in the first half of this year .
The Lermontov plant , part of the Almaz Group , exports 80 % of its output and positions itself as a boutique , high - end producer .
Its monoammonium phosphate fertilisers are on average $ 100 a tonne more expensive than Chinese equivalents , Gurary said .
“ This is a substantial difference for the market .
But now they ’re reaching out to us , ” he said , adding that the plant ’s new clients include some of the world ’s biggest fertiliser trading companies .
The leap in demand is also the result of new quarantine policies in ports around the world .
“ A large number of vessels are not even being allowed to enter ports , ” Gurary said , citing clients in his factory ’s main export markets - Brazil , the United States and Mexico .
“ Even though the product has arrived on the continent , people ca n’t unload it and this is causing a shortage ... and a heightened interest in us . ”
Prices for phosphate - based fertilisers have begun to recover , said BCS Global Markets analyst Anastasia Egazaryan , but this began before the shutdowns took hold , driven by output cuts by major global producers .
Reporting by Polina Ivanova
Editing by David Goodman

Italian with coronavirus in Nigeria was not isolated for almost 48 hours .
2020-02-28 13:21:55 +00:00 .
LAGOS / ABUJA ( Reuters ) -
An Italian man who has been confirmed as Nigeria ’s first coronavirus case after arriving from Milan was in the country for almost two full days before being isolated , travelled through Lagos and visited another state .
FILE PHOTO :
An official monitors thermal scanners as a passenger walks past upon arrival of a flight into Lagos , Nigeria January 22 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Temilade
Adelaja The case has prompted a scramble by authorities in Africa ’s most populous country to try to “ meet and observe ” all who arrived on the same flight as the Italian and to identify the places he visited before going to the hospital .
“ We have started working to identify all the contacts of the person since he entered Nigeria and even those who were with him on the aircraft , ” Health Minister Osagie Ehanire told reporters on Friday in Nigeria ’s capital , Abuja .
The Italian , whose country has been hit worse by the virus than any other in Europe , arrived on Feb. 24 on a Turkish Airlines flight that had a connection in Istanbul , Lagos state Commissioner for Health , Professor Akin Abayomi , told a news conference .
After spending the night in a hotel near the airport , he went on Feb. 25 to his place of work in neighbouring Ogun state , and stayed there until he developed a fever and body aches on the afternoon of Feb. 26 , Abayomi said .
Health practitioners with his company then contacted biosecurity authorities who transferred him to the high containment facility in Yaba , Lagos state .
“ It was very astute of the medical practitioners in that facility to keep him overnight in an isolated environment , ” Abayomi said .
Ehanire said the infection was confirmed on Feb. 27 by the Virology Laboratory of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital , part of the Laboratory Network of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control , and that the man is now quarantined but doing well .
His case is also the first confirmed coronavirus case in sub - Saharan Africa .
Turkish Airlines did not immediately comment on the case .
There are no confirmed cases in Turkey .
NIGERIAN ECONOMY AT RISK
Officials from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control ( NCDC ) are heading to Lagos to help address the case , and have activated its national Emergency Operations Centre .
Ehanire said Nigeria was continually stepping up its preparedness to control and contain the spread of the coronavirus , which was first reported in China .
The World Health Organization has said it already has experts on the ground in Nigeria , which it identifies as one of 13 “ high priority ” countries in Africa .
In a sign of concern in Kenya , the country ’s High Court ordered flights from China to be temporarily suspended on Friday .
Kenya has no confirmed cases of the virus .
Ehanire said China had been working closely with Nigerian authorities , and had sent a treatment guide .
Nigerian stocks fell 1.63 % to their lowest level in two months on Friday following the announcement of the coronavirus case .
The spread of the new coronavirus from China has hit global financial markets , and Nigeria ’s economy is at risk from the tumbling price of oil , which accounts for 90 % of Nigeria ’s foreign exchange earnings .
Brent crude has shed around 13 % of its value this week , and Nigeria ’s currency has lost ground on the one - year forward market .
Reporting by Alexis Akwagyiram in Lagos , Camillus Eboh in Abuja and Rama Venkat in Bengaluru ; Additional reporting by Abraham Achirga in Abuja , Nneka Chile and Libby George in Lagos , writing by Libby George ; Editing by Simon Cameron - Moore , Himani Sarkar , Clarence Fernandez and Timothy
Heritage

ECB rate setters see no need for action as coronavirus spreads .
2020-02-28 12:26:47 +00:00 .
FRANKFURT / BRUSSELS ( Reuters ) -
The European Central Bank does not need to take immediate action in response to the coronavirus epidemic , two ECB policymakers said on Friday , confounding market bets on a rate cut .
FILE PHOTO :
The logo of the European Central Bank ( ECB ) is pictured outside its headquarters in Frankfurt , Germany , April 26 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Kai Pfaffenbach
The central bank governors of Germany and Lithuania joined a number of fellow ECB rate setters in playing down the chances of a policy move in response to the epidemic , which is spreading to the euro zone after killing nearly 2,900 people in China .
“ This is a very complex monetary policy issue which , in my view , does not require acute monetary policy action , ” Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said in Frankfurt .
His Lithuanian colleague Vitas Vasiliauskas had said earlier the ECB had taken a “ wait and see approach ” and no action was expected at a policy meeting on March 12 .
But he added there was “ no problem for the Governing Council to meet in some extraordinary way , not to wait until ” the following gathering on April 30 .
[ . ]
Investors were ramping up expectations for an ECB rate cut as early as June on fears that coronavirus , now spreading to a number of European countries , could tip the world economy into recession .
Weidmann echoed a number of ECB rate - setters in saying it was too early to gauge the economic fallout of the epidemic .
But he acknowledged the Bundesbank ’s prediction of a 0.6 % GDP expansion this year , which had already been halved from the previous forecast , may be out of date .
“ All in all , economic growth this year could come in slightly lower than our experts estimated in December , ” Weidmann said .
China is Germany ’s top source of imports and its third - largest export market .
Weidmann merely acknowledged that the latest events were lengthening the odds on a rate increase , previously expected for 2022 .
But he said the ECB should “ not lose sight of the exit ” from its ultra - easy policy of massive bond purchases and negative rates .
“ The Governing Council must not lose sight of the exit from loose monetary policy , ” he said .
“ For the very loose monetary policy is also associated with risks and side effects . ”
He also criticized the notion of raising the ECB ’s inflation target , saying its current formulation as a rate of price growth “ below but close to 2 % ” was “ understandable , forward - looking and realistic ” .
Additional reporting by Frank Siebelt , editing by Larry King

British Airways owner says earnings bets are off as coronavirus hits .
2020-02-28 09:35:34 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - British Airways - owner IAG ( ICAG.L ) said on Friday that coronavirus would hit its earnings this year but it was n’t sure by how much , becoming the latest airline to warn about the impact of the rapidly evolving outbreak .
A British Airways aircraft takes off from Heathrow Airport in west London , Britain , February 23 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Hannah McKay Coronavirus , which emerged late last year in China , has sent demand for travel plunging in recent weeks as the outbreak has spread around the world .
Airlines are flying blind into a crisis of unknown severity and duration .
IAG , which also owns Iberia and Aer Lingus , usually gives an earnings forecast at this time of year but said the uncertainty of the impact and duration of coronavirus meant it could not give accurate profit guidance at this stage .
“ It ’s a rapidly changing situation , ” Chief Executive Willie Walsh told reporters on Friday .
“ I would n’t call it unprecedented .
We have seen other challenges for the industry . ”
British Airways has in recent days canceled flights to and from Italy , Singapore and South Korea , after it suspended all direct flights to China in January .
IAG said further cancellations would follow in the coming days .
British budget airline easyJet ( EZJ.L ) also warned on Friday that it had seen “ significant ” softening of demand for travel to Italy and other European markets and would cancel flights and cut costs .
Finland ’s Finnair ( FIA1S.HE ) also warned of a significant fall in profit .
STOCKS PLUNGE
The rapid spread of coronavirus has sent shockwaves through the global economy , hammering corporate supply chains , curbing travel , cancelling conferences and sporting events , and wiping tens of billions of pounds off financial markets .
Share prices were on track for their worst week since the global financial crisis in 2008 and IAG ’s is down 25 % since the middle of January .
On Friday it fell a further 8 % to 474 pence .
The outbreak in Italy over the last week has brought new disruption to short - haul European travel but Walsh said IAG , with its strong balance sheet , was well - placed to withstand it .
“ I ’m very confident that we ’ll navigate our way through these challenges , ” said Walsh , overseeing his last quarterly results announcement before new boss Luis Gallego takes over on March 26 .
Bernstein analyst Daniel Roeska backed Walsh ’s thinking : “ We are also confident that a downturn would reveal the strength of the IAG model . ”
IAG said it was cutting costs and implementing revenue initiatives , which included looking at all discretionary spending , to help it weather the storm .
That ’s in line with moves by Germany ’s Lufthansa ( LHAG.DE ) and Amsterdam - based KLM which have both cut costs in recent days .
IAG said flight cancellations due to falling demand would hit its 2020 capacity growth though Walsh said it could start adding capacity if other airlines fail and that the group was in a strong position to benefit from any recovery .
The company also said its acquisition of Air Europa remained on track for completion later this year and was not affected by the coronavirus outbreak .
For 2019 , IAG reported a 5.7 % drop in operating profit to 3.285 billion euros , slightly ahead of a downgraded forecast of 3.27 billion euros it gave in September when it said a pilots strike would result in a 215 million euros hit .
Reporting by Sarah Young ;
editing by Kate Holton , Guy Faulconbridge and David Clarke

METALS-London zinc heads for worst week since Sept 2015 as virus spreads .
2020-02-28 08:43:11 +00:00 .
( Recasts , updates prices )
By Mai Nguyen Feb 28 ( Reuters ) - Base metals dropped on Friday as a rapid spread of the coronavirus outbreak stoked concerns of a pandemic and global recession , with London zinc on track for its biggest weekly fall since September 2015 amid high inventories .
The epidemic , which started in China , has spread to around 50 countries and disrupted global economic activities .
World share markets were headed for their worst week since the depths of the 2008 financial crisis on pandemic fears , despite China reporting the least new cases since Jan. 23 .
“ Sentiment is weak across the board .
Everyone is afraid , ” said a base metals trader .
Benchmark three - month zinc on the London Metal Exchange ( LME ) fell as much as 2.1 % to $ 1,970.50 a tonne , its lowest since June 2016 .
The contract was down 6.3 % on a weekly basis by 0724 GMT , on track for its biggest drop since September 2015 .
The most traded zinc contract on the Shanghai Futures Exchange ( ShFE ) dropped as much as 5 % to 15,600 yuan ( $ 2,224.50 ) a tonne , its lowest since June 2017 .
FUNDAMENTALS
* ZINC STOCKS :
ShFE zinc stocks ZN - STX - SGH jumped to 160,011 tonnes , their highest since April 2017 , while LME zinc stocks MZNSTX - TOTAL have been hovering around their highest level since August 2019 , latest exchange data showed .
* ALUMINIUM : Russian aluminium group United Company Rusal said the virus would hit the Chinese market in the first half of this year , with weak demand and a bigger supply surplus .
* PRICES :
LME nickel fell 1.5 % to $ 12,185 a tonne , aluminium hit its lowest in 40 months at $ 1,665 a tonne , copper slipped 1.1 % to $ 5,552 a tonne and lead was down 0.8 % at $ 1,795 a tonne .
* SHFE PRICES :
ShFE copper declined 2.6 % to 44,180 yuan a tonne , aluminium dropped 2.6 % to 13,060 yuan a tonne and nickel fell as much as 2.9 % to a seven - month low of 98,200 yuan a tonne .
* CHINA :
China should stockpile some non - ferrous metals to take the pressure off producers whose sales have been drying up because of the outbreak , the China Nonferrous Metals Industry Association said .
* IMF : The International Monetary Fund is likely to downgrade global economic growth forecast due to the virus , its spokesman said .
* For the top stories in metals and other news , click or PRICES
Three month LME copper
Most active ShFE copper
Three month LME aluminium
Most active ShFE aluminium Three month LME zinc
Most active ShFE zinc Three month LME lead
Most active ShFE lead
Three month LME nickel
Most active ShFE nickel Three month
LME tin
Most active ShFE tin $ 1 = 7.0128 Chinese yuan
Reporting by Mai Nguyen ; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu and Maju
Samuel

Oil prices dive to lowest in over a year on coronavirus fears .
2020-02-27 21:18:10 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) - Oil prices tumbled for a fifth day on Thursday to their lowest in more than a year , as further novel coronavirus cases outside China fanned fears that a pandemic could slow the global economy and erode demand for crude .
Brent crude LCOc1 dropped $ 1.25 , or 2.3 % , to settle at $ 52.18 a barrel , off the session low of $ 50.97 a barrel , the lowest since December 2018 .
West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) futures CLc1 sank $ 1.64 , or 3.4 % , to $ 47.09 , after hitting their lowest since January 2019 .
For the first time since the outbreak erupted , the number of new coronavirus infections outside China exceeded new Chinese cases .
Trading in oil markets suggested investors expect a prolonged period of oversupply , with demand hurt as the virus has spread to large economies including South Korea , Japan and Italy .
“ Oil is in freefall as the magnitude of global quarantine efforts will provide severe demand destruction for the next couple of quarters , ” said Edward Moya , senior market analyst at OANDA in New York .
“ The first U.S. case of unknown origin has energy markets preparing ( for ) a prolonged deep drop in demand for crude . ”
The crude market is watching for possible deeper output cuts by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies including Russia , a group known as OPEC+ , set to meet in Vienna on March 5 - 6 .
The group is currently reducing supply by roughly 1.2 million bpd to support prices .
Consultants Facts Global Energy forecast oil demand would grow by 60,000 barrels per day in 2020 , a level it called “ practically zero , ” due to the outbreak .
The virus outbreak would likely trim China ’s economic growth this year to 5.6 % , down 0.4 percentage point from its January outlook , and shave 0.1 percentage point from global growth , IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said .
U.S. gasoline futures RBc1 tumbled as much as 5.5 % to $ 1.3742 a gallon , the lowest since late January 2019 .
Heating oil futures HOc1 dropped about 0.7 % to settle at $ 1.4892 a gallon , after hitting the lowest since July 2017 .
Businesses in China have started to reopen as the number of new cases on the mainland has waned .
“ It makes me think that the downside here now moves from crude to products should the virus continue to grow outside of China as their rates return , exports surge and perhaps the rest of the market is n’t there to take it from them , ” said Scott Shelton , energy broker with ICAP in Durham , North Carolina .
Margins for producing distillates HOc1 - CLc1 - heating oil , diesel fuel and jet fuel - have hit their lowest levels since 2017 due to fears of reduced demand .
FILE PHOTO :
A view shows the Gazprom Neft 's oil refinery in Omsk , Russia February 10 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Alexey Malgavko / File Photo
Global equities resumed their plunge , wiping out more than $ 3 trillion in value this week alone .
For both Brent and WTI , the spread between December 2020 futures and December 2021 , a popular trade used as a barometer for supply expectations , fell firmly into negative territory .
Both spreads CLZ0 - Z1 LCOZ0 - Z1 hit the widest levels since January 2019 , signaling erosion in demand could lead to a glut through the end of this year .
Saudi Arabia , the world ’s top oil exporter , is reducing crude supplies to China in March by at least 500,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) due to slower refinery demand following the coronavirus outbreak , two sources with knowledge of the matter said .
Additional reporting by Noah Browning in London , Yuka Obayashi in Tokyo and Roslan Khasawneh in Singapore ;
Editing by Bernadette Baum and Alistair Bell

Brazil beef firms face reduced Chinese demand due to coronavirus .
2020-02-27 19:50:08 +00:00 .
SAO PAULO ( Reuters ) - China ’s beef imports will fall in the first half of 2020 due to fallout from the coronavirus outbreak , which is complicating the circulation of people and trade globally , Rabobank said in a report released on Thursday .
FILE PHOTO :
An employee works at the assembly line of jerked beef at a plant of JBS S.A , the world 's largest beef producer , in Santana de Parnaiba , Brazil December 19 , 2017 .
REUTERS / Paulo Whitaker
The situation may rein in Brazil ’s meat export bonanza , as domestic food processors were among the biggest winners of additional Chinese food import demand after African swine fever has disrupted local meat suppliers since around August 2018 .
The bank said China ’s high inventory of frozen beef stored in local markets in preparation for the country ’s Lunar New Year holiday was not used in January due to the outbreak of coronavirus , which caused restaurants to close .
Some could remain closed until March as people continue to avoid eating out , Rabobank said .
“ Quick service restaurants may be impacted the least , while hotpot and full - service restaurants will see sales decline markedly in the first quarter , ” the report said .
Citing uncertainties around to what degree coronavirus can be contained in the first quarter , Rabobank mentioned the possibility that the food service and tourism industries would remain disrupted through April or May.
“ This lower sales volume means beef demand will be weaker than normal years in the first half , ” the bank said .
Brazil ’s total beef exports hit a record $ 7.5 billion in 2019 driven by strong demand from China , which accounted 26.6 % of the volume exported by domestic beef packers , according to data compiled by meat association Abrafrigo .
If sales to Hong Kong are included , the combined volume rises to 45 % .
Some of Brazil ’s main beef exporters include Minerva , JBS and Marfrig .
Still , after a 2019 marked by record exports and prices , the Brazilian beef industry “ is experiencing a moment of rebalancing of supply and demand , ” Rabobank said .
Brazil registered unprecedented price levels late last year due to strong beef exports , making the domestic market retract when the price increases reached the local consumer .
Meanwhile the rainy season generated pasture growth , which lowers production costs but limits the supply of animals sent for slaughter , the bank noted .
“ With [ Brazil ’s ] domestic consumption still considered weak and China reducing purchases due to the coronavirus , abattoirs are unwilling to pay higher prices to attract increased volumes , ” Rabobank said .
Although still 27 % higher than in January 2019 , Brazilian cattle prices in January dropped 9.8 % from 211.97 reais per 15 kilograms in December , Rabobank data showed .
Aside from rise in the cost to buy cattle , rising animal feed costs constitute another challenge for Brazilian beef - packers , the bank noted .
Reporting by Ana Mano in Sao Paulo ;
Editing by Matthew Lewis

CORRECTED-UPDATE 3-U.S. airlines, hotels extend rebooking options as coronavirus spreads .
2020-02-27 10:45:16 +00:00 .
( This February 25 story corrects to say that Marriott has issued cancellation waiver until March 15 in paragraph 13 )
By Tracy Rucinski and Brenda Goh
( Reuters ) - U.S. airlines and hotels are extending options for customers to rebook travel to a growing list of countries , including Italy , as coronavirus cases spiked outside of China and sparked fears of a global pandemic .
The United States told Americans on Tuesday to begin preparing for the coronavirus to spread within the country as outbreaks in Iran , South Korea and Italy escalated , triggering concerns of a hit to global travel demand .
Delta Air Lines Inc said that reservations through March 2 on flights to Bologna , Milan and Venice in northern Italy , where cases have climbed , are eligible for rescheduling .
Air Canada has also added parts of Italy to its list of places eligible for rebookings .
Hyatt Hotels said it would allow travelers from South Korea , Japan and Italy to cancel or change their hotel bookings for free , expanding the policy from mainland China , Hong Kong , Macau and Taiwan .
The cancellations or booking changes at Hyatt are valid for reservations made through March 31 , the U.S. hotel operator said on its official Chinese social media account on WeChat .
Major airlines have also issued travel waivers , eliminating change fees , for flights to South Korea .
United Airlines Holdings Inc and American Airlines Group Inc said on Tuesday they were still monitoring developments in Italy .
So far U.S. airlines have only canceled flights to China , a move that followed the U.S. State Department ’s decision to elevate a travel advisory to the country to the same level as Afghanistan and Iraq .
American Airlines shares dropped 9.3 % to $ 23.12 on Tuesday , below their price after the company emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2013 .
Cowen analyst Helane Becker said the impacts extended to car rental companies as well as concessions and restaurants in airports and on cruise lines .
“ It ’s not just the airlines that are being impacted by people making different travel plans , ” she said .
Royal Caribbean Cruises said it has canceled 30 sailings in Southeast Asia and changed several itineraries in the region due to the coronavirus outbreak , hitting its 2020 earnings per share by about $ 0.90 .
Hyatt ’s larger rivals Marriott International Inc and Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc have also issued cancellation waivers for guests affected by the outbreak in mainland China , Hong Kong , Macau and Taiwan .
Hilton has issued the waiver until March 31 and Marriott until March 15 .
The hotel chains did not immediately respond to requests for comment if they were extending the waiver to South Korea , Japan and Italy as well .
Even travel companies without exposure to Europe and Asia were keeping an eye on developments .
JetBlue Airways Corp , which only flies in the United States , the Caribbean and Latin America , said on Tuesday it had activated its pandemic response team to monitor the situation in real time .
The team was last called on for the Zika virus outbreak in 2016 , a spokesman said .
Reporting by Tracy Rucinski and Brenda Goh ; additional reporting by Ankit Ajmera ;
Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty , Cynthia Osterman and Richard Chang

Aston Martin shares slide as losses deepen and finance chief leaves .
2020-02-27 09:54:49 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Aston Martin shares slumped to a record low on Thursday after the British luxury carmaker said its losses ballooned last year and its chief financial officer would leave by the end of April .
FILE PHOTO :
The badge of an Aston Martin DB10 is displayed at a UK Trade and Investment event in London , Britain October 21 , 2015 .
REUTERS / Neil Hall / File photo
The firm , famed for being fictional agent James Bond ’s car of choice , posted a pretax loss of 104 million pounds ( $ 135 million ) last year compared with 68 million pounds in 2018 following a 9 % decline in sales to dealers .
Aston Martin is in the midst of restructuring after announcing last month that a consortium led by Canadian billionaire Lawrence Stroll would buy up to 20 % of the company and existing shareholders would inject more cash .
Its shares , which were listed in October 2018 , have been on a steady downward trajectory ever since and hit a record low of 328 pence following the announcements on Thursday , more than 80 % lower than their flotation price .
“ The big difference between last year and this year is the strength of the balance sheet , ” Chief Executive Andy Palmer told Reuters .
“ We ’re in a very different place and have therefore an ability to properly ... destock and that means get the balance right between supply and demand . ”
Chief Finance Officer Mark Wilson will step down from his role no later than April 30 but had not been fired , said Palmer .
CORONAVIRUS IMPACT
China , Aston ’s fastest growing market , was a rare bright spot last year with sales rising 28 % but the company , like the rest of the industry , has seen demand drop due to the coronavirus outbreak .
The virus has infected more than 80,000 people and killed about 2,800 , the majority in China , confining millions to their homes , disrupting businesses and delaying the reopening of factories after the extended Lunar New Year holiday break .
Aston has seen disruption to the arrival of certain parts but said it had not had to stop production at its factories , with components secured until at least the end of March because it has no direct suppliers in China .
“ Since almost the first weeks of the New Year we ’ve had issues with those Tier 2 and Tier 3 ( suppliers ) which have meant that our supply chain guys have had to be on it constantly , ” said Palmer .
“ We ’re ironically benefitting from the fact that we built up a Brexit stock , ” he said , in a reference to extra components the firm held in case Britain ’s departure from the European Union led to additional delays in the movement of goods .
The firm said deliveries of its crucial first sport utility vehicle , the DBX , were scheduled for the summer but subject to any impact from the outbreak on the supply chain .
As part of several changes announced in the last few weeks , Aston Martin is delaying plans to electrify its range , taking a 39 million - pound charge , and focusing on hybrid vehicles for now , starting with the Valhalla model in 2022 .
( $ 1 = 0.7696 pounds )
Reporting by Costas Pitas ;
Editing by Paul Sandle , Guy Faulconbridge and David Clarke

Malaysia's Mahathir and Anwar in new showdown amid turmoil .
2020-02-26 12:50:05 +00:00 .
KUALA LUMPUR ( Reuters ) - Malaysia ’s decades - old political rivals Mahathir Mohamad and Anwar Ibrahim set out claims to lead the Southeast Asian country on Wednesday after Mahathir ’s shock resignation as prime minister sparked turmoil .
Malaysian politician Anwar Ibrahim waves to his supporters after a news conference in Petaling Jaya , Malaysia , February 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lim Huey Teng
The struggle between Mahathir , 94 , and Anwar , 72 , who formed a surprise pact to win a 2018 election , has shaped Malaysian politics for more than two decades and is at the root of the latest crisis .
Mahathir , the world ’s oldest head of government in his role as interim prime minister , proposed a unified administration without political party allegiances at a time Malaysia faces a flagging economy and the impact of the new coronavirus .
“ Politics and political parties need to be put aside for now , ” Mahathir said in a televised message .
“ I propose a government that is not aligned with any party , but only prioritises the interests of the country . ”
Anwar later said he opposed forming a “ backdoor government ” and that three parties from the former Pakatan ruling coalition had proposed his name to the king as candidate for prime minister .
“ We wait for the decision of the king , ” he told a news conference .
To try to end the crisis , Sultan Abdullah Sultan Ahmad Shah has been meeting all 222 elected members of parliament over two days .
Those in the meetings said they were asked to name their favoured prime minister or whether they wanted fresh elections .
Anwar ’s Parti Keadilan Rakyat ( PKR ) , or the People ’s Justice Party , has 39 seats and alliance partners could potentially give it another 62 .
While some politicians have openly voiced support for Mahathir to stay in office , it was not clear whether enough of them would give him their backing .
POLITICAL TANGLE
The volatile relationship between Anwar and Mahathir helped prompt the latest crisis after Mahathir resisted pressure to set a date for a promised transfer of power to Anwar made ahead of the 2018 election .
As well as personal relationships
, politics in Malaysia is shaped by a tangle of ethnic and religious interests .
The largely Muslim country of 32 million is more than half ethnic Malay , but has large ethnic Chinese , Indian and other minorities .
A unity government cutting across party lines could give Mahathir greater authority than during a spell as prime minister from 1981 until his retirement in 2003 .
But the idea was rejected on Tuesday by an alliance of four parties including the United Malays National Organisation ( UMNO ) , which ruled Malaysia for six decades until being defeated by Mahathir ’s coalition in 2018 .
The four parties said they had told the king they wanted a new election instead .
After their election defeat under former prime minister Najib Razak , those parties ’ fortunes have been on the rise while the Pakatan coalition of Mahathir and Anwar has lost five by - elections Anwar was Mahathir ’s deputy and a rising political star when Mahathir was prime minister the first time but they fell out .
Anwar was arrested and jailed in the late 1990s for sodomy and corruption , charges that he and his supporters maintain were aimed at ending his political career .
Reporting by Joseph Sipalan , Rozanna Latiff , A. Ananthalakshmi , Liz Lee and Krishna N. Das , Mei Mei Chu ; Editing by Lincoln Feast ,
Robert Birsel

PetroChina buys one out of three LNG cargoes traded on Platts' pricing process .
2020-02-26 10:52:52 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE , Feb 26 ( Reuters ) - PetroChina on Wednesday bought a spot liquefied natural gas ( LNG ) cargo for delivery in April from commodity trader Vitol through the SP Global Platts ’ pricing process also known as market - on - close ( MOC ) .
The cargo , which traded at $ 3.05 per million British thermal units ( mmBtu ) , is for delivery over April 20 to 22 into the Japan , Korea , Taiwan , China region and is to be loaded from Das Island , Abu Dhabi , Platts said .
Both the buyer and seller may opt for alternate discharge or loading ports respectively , provided they give 30 days notice before initial delivery , the pricing agency added .
PetroChina does not only buy cargoes for domestic use in China but also for trading purpose but signs are emerging of improving demand from the world ’s second largest buyer of the super - chilled fuel .
LNG shipments to China last week , for instance , rose for the first time in five weeks amid more economic activity which was hit by the coronavirus outbreak , sources said .
Separately , Platts added that two other deals exchanged hands during its pricing process on Wednesday .
Glencore bought an LNG cargo from Vitol for delivery over April 6 to 8 while BP bought a cargo from Vitol for delivery over April 14 to 16 , the agency said .
Both cargoes traded at $ 2.95 per mmBtu .
LNG trading is typically very opaque with buyers and sellers usually not commenting on their own deals so the trades on Platts pricing process offers more transparency , traders said .
( Reporting by Jessica Jaganathan Editing by Robert Birsel )

Dow sinks 1,000 points as pandemic fears rattle Wall Street .
2020-02-24 18:41:29 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
The Dow Jones Industrials shed 1,000 points on Monday and the SP 500 was set for its worst day in two years as a surge in coronavirus cases outside China clouded global growth outlook .
Several countries including Iran , Italy and South Korea reported a rise in virus cases over the weekend , fanning fears of a pandemic that prompted a rush to safe - haven assets such as gold and U.S. Treasuries .
An yield curve inversion between the 3 - month and 10 - year U.S. Treasuries deepened in a classic recession sign .
Adding to worries , Goldman Sachs slashed its U.S. growth forecast and predicted a more severe impact from the epidemic , CNBC reported .
[ US/ ]
The blue - chip Dow has now erased its gains for the year , while the benchmark SP 500 is about 5 % below its all - time high hit last week .
The Nasdaq is 6.5 % off its record peak .
All of the 11 major SP sectors were in the red , led by a 4.1 % drop in technology stocks .
Apple Inc slid 4.4 % as data showed sales of smartphones in China tumbled by more than a third in January .
Wall Street ’s main indexes notched record highs last week , partly on optimism that the global economy would be able to snap back after an initial hit , supported by central banks .
“ It is not as though the numbers have changed dramatically but what has changed is the geography , which adds a new level of concern , ” said Art Hogan , chief market strategist at National Securities in New York .
“ What the market is trying to predict here is how large will this get globally , and when will it start to peak . ”
China - exposed chipmakers slipped , with the Philadelphia SE Semiconductor index dropping 4.7 % , while concerns about growing travel curbs dragged the NYSE Arca Airline Index down 6.2 % .
Specialist trader works at his post on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) in New York , U.S. , February 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Brendan McDermid The CBOE Volatility Index , a gauge of investor anxiety , jumped to its highest level since January 2019 .
( GRAPHIC : Coronavirus timeline Image - here )
At 1:06 p.m. ET , the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 1,027.29 points , or 3.54 % , at 27,965.12 and the SP 500 was down 116.33 points , or 3.49 % , at 3,221.42 .
The Nasdaq Composite was down 377.81 points , or 3.95 % , at 9,198.78 .
The SP 500 fell below its 50 - day moving average and the Dow slipped below its 100 - day moving average , all closely watched indicators of momentum .
Health insurers such as UnitedHealth Group Inc and Cigna Corp dropped nearly 8 % as Bernie Sanders , who backs the elimination of private health insurance , strengthened his position for the Democratic presidential nomination with a victory in the Nevada caucuses .
In a rare bright spot , Gilead Sciences Inc , whose antiviral remdesivir has shown promise in monkeys infected by a related coronavirus , rose 2.8 % .
Declining issues outnumbered advancers for a 6.76 - to-1 ratio on the NYSE and for a 7.63 - to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq .
The SP index recorded seven new 52 - week highs and 22 new lows , while the Nasdaq recorded 17 new highs and 140 new lows .
Reporting by Medha Singh in Bengaluru , additional reporting by Stephen Culp ;
Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty and Arun Koyyur

WHO says it no longer uses 'pandemic' category, but virus still emergency .
2020-02-24 15:58:42 +00:00 .
GENEVA ( Reuters ) -
The World Health Organization no longer uses the classification pandemic , but the COVID-19 coronavirus outbreak remains an international emergency that is likely to spread further , a spokesman said on Monday .
Director - General of the WHO Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , attends a news conference on the coronavirus ( COVID-2019 ) in Geneva , Switzerland February 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Denis Balibouse Fears of a coronavirus pandemic grew after sharp rises in new cases reported in Iran , Italy and South Korea , although China relaxed restrictions on movement in several places including Beijing as its rates of new infections eased .
The Geneva - based WHO declared the 2009 H1N1 swine flu outbreak a pandemic , which turned out to be mild , leading to some criticism after pharmaceutical companies rushed development of vaccines and drugs .
WHO declared the novel coronavirus that emerged in Wuhan , China , in December a public health emergency of international concern , known as a PHEIC , on Jan. 30 .
The designation , which remains in place , was aimed at helping countries with weaker health systems shore up their defense , especially in Africa .
Since then the virus has spread , with more than 77,000 known infections in China , including 2,445 deaths , and 1,769 cases and 17 deaths in 28 other countries , the latest WHO figures show .
South Korea , Japan and Italy are experiencing large outbreaks .
“ There is no official category ( for a pandemic ) , ” WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic said .
“ For the sake of clarification , WHO does not use the old system of 6 phases — that ranged from phase 1 ( no reports of animal influenza causing human infections ) to phase 6 ( a pandemic ) — that some people may be familiar with from H1N1 in 2009 , ” he said .
Colloquially , pandemic is used to denote the outbreak of a new pathogen that spreads easily person - to - person across the globe , Jasarevic said .
“ What we are seeing at the moment are outbreaks and clusters of cases in multiple countries .
Some countries have since stopped transmission .
They must remain alert for the possibility of reintroduction .
There will likely be more cases in more places , ” he said .
“ Definitions and terminology aside , our advice remains the same , and we continue working with countries to limit the spread of the virus while also preparing for the possibility of wider spread , ” he said .
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , WHO director - general , said on Friday : “ I would like to assure you we are following this virus 24/7 round the clock ...
As we speak our situation is that we are still in a phase where containment is possible with a narrowing window of opportunity .
”(The story refiles using the word ‘ classification ’ and not ‘ term ’ in first paragraph )
Reporting by Stephanie Nebehay ;
Editing by Alex Richardson , Peter Graff and Giles Elgood

Belgian designer Raf Simons joins Prada as co-creative director .
2020-02-23 14:18:49 +00:00 .
MILAN ( Reuters ) - Raf Simons will join Prada as co - creative director , marking the first time the Italian fashion house has hired an outsider to work with renowned head designer Miuccia Prada .
Raf Simons , Chief Creative Officer of Calvin Klein , acknowledges attendees after presenting creations from the Calvin Klein Spring / Summer 2019 collection at New York Fashion Week , New York , U.S. , September 11 , 2018 .
REUTERS / Andrew Kelly Belgian - born Simons , 52 , will join Prada on April 2 , the group said in a statement .
He was most recently creative director at Calvin Klein and before that at Christian Dior and Jil Sander , a brand which was then owned by Prada .
After becoming one of Italy ’s best known fashion houses , Prada has struggled in recent years .
A restructuring drive began to pay off in 2018 when sales returned to growth for the first time in four years thanks to a new strategy aimed at rejuvenating the label by renovating shops , launching new products and boosting online sales .
But the brand is still not achieving the kind of double - digit sales growth seen at rivals like Moncler ( MONC.MI ) or Gucci ( PRTP.PA ) , and the Hong Kong - listed group is often cited as a possible takeover target for bigger high - end houses .
Miuccia Prada , 70 , told a news conference in Milan that Simons ’ appointment was not intended to pave the way for a possible succession as Prada ’s top designer .
“ Absolutely not , ” she said .
“ I like working , do n’t make me older than I am . ”
Miuccia Prada and Simons will have “ equal responsibilities for creative input and decision making , ” the group said .
“ It ’s a challenge , we respect each other and we will see if we go somewhere , ” she said .
Her husband Patrizio Bertelli , who is Prada ’s chief executive , said this was perhaps the first time that two star designers would be working together .
Other new managers recently joined the group .
Benedetta Petruzzo , previously at Gucci - owner Kering ( PRTP.PA ) , has been appointed general manager at Miu Miu , Prada ’s brand aimed at younger shoppers .
Christopher Bugg has joined from LVMH ’s ( LVMH.PA ) top label Louis Vuitton as marketing and communication director for Asia .
Sunday ’s news conference took place even as several designers , including Giorgio Armani , cancelled their Milan fashion shows as Italy scrambles to contain the biggest outbreak of coronavirus in Europe .
The health scare is set to hit revenues at luxury groups like Prada , which rely on Chinese nationals for more than a third of sales .
Writing by Silvia Aloisi ;
Editing by Frances Kerry and Jane Merriman

Deere's shares hit all-time high on unexpected rise in quarterly profit .
2020-02-21 20:34:34 +00:00 .
CHICAGO ( Reuters ) - Deere
Co ’s ( DE.N ) shares hit an all - time high on Friday after the company reported an unexpected increase in first - quarter profit , but the world ’s largest farm equipment maker warned the outbreak of coronavirus would hit sales and earnings in the second quarter .
Shares surged 9.7 % to their highest - ever level of $ 181.99 in morning trade after Deere said it sees signs of stabilization in the U.S. farm sector , which has been buffeted by a nearly two - year - long trade war with China .
Shares were up 8 % at $ 179.16 in mid - afternoon .
A lower tax rate lifted the quarterly profit to $ 1.63 per share from $ 1.54 per share last year , topping Refinitiv ’s average analyst estimate of $ 1.26 per share .
The trade war hit American agricultural exports to China , a major buyer of soybeans , leaving farmers struggling to turn a profit and hurting purchases of new farm machinery .
The Moline , Illinois - based company said an early order program for its combines ended this year with a low single - digit growth in the United States .
It described the tractor order book for this year as “ healthy . ”
“ Farmer sentiment began to show early signs of stabilization during the quarter as uncertainty surrounding market access abated , ” Brent Norwood , Deere ’s investor communications manager , told analysts on an earnings call , referring to the Phase 1 U.S.-China trade agreement .
FILE PHOTO :
The leaping deer trademark logo is seen on a sign outside a John Deere dealership in Taylor , Texas , U.S. , February 16 , 2017 .
REUTERS / Mohammad Khursheed / File Photo
The company , however , warned the outbreak of coronavirus will impact its next sales and profits report .
The outbreak forced Deere to close all eight of its facilities in China and is also threatening to affect its factories in the United States by limiting supplies of several components that formerly came from China .
Deere said limited production has restarted at some of its Chinese facilities .
It projects spending $ 40 million in the second quarter on expedited freight and is working with suppliers and logistics providers to alleviate the supply issues .
Illinois - based Morton Industries , which supplies to Deere , Caterpillar Inc ( CAT.N ) and Komatsu Ltd ( 6301.T ) , said customers are helping it to procure the impacted components domestically , but the prices of local vendors are higher .
“ There is a lot of effort going on right now to minimize the impact , ” said Kevin Baughman , Morton ’s vice president of operations .
“ We do not anticipate any supply disruptions with our efforts . ”
The epidemic has also cast doubts on whether China can boost U.S. farm purchases by the dollar amount agreed to in the interim deal .
A little over a month since the U.S.-China trade deal , which mandates a sharp jump in U.S. agricultural exports this year , farm commodity prices remain depressed as Chinese purchases have been way below the pre - trade war levels .
FILE PHOTO :
A John Deere 8400i harvesting tractor stands on display before the opening of the International Green Week ( Internationale Gruene Woche ) agriculture and food fair in Berlin , Germany , January 16 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Michele Tantussi / File Photo Norwood expects farmers to remain cautious until farm exports to China begin to flow .
Sales at Deere ’s farm and turf business , which accounts for nearly 60 % of its revenue , declined in the latest quarter , but higher price realization along with lower production costs and warranty expenses resulted in higher operating profit .
The company retained its 2020 profit forecast of $ 2.7 billion to $ 3.1 billion .
Reporting by Rajesh Kumar Singh in Chicago ; Editing by Marguerita Choy and
Matthew Lewis

European shares mark worst day in 3 weeks on weak earnings, virus risks .
2020-02-20 17:43:01 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - European shares eased from record highs on Thursday , as a raft of disappointing earnings added to concerns about the global impact of the coronavirus outbreak after research suggested the illness is more contagious than previously thought .
FILE PHOTO :
The German share price index DAX graph is pictured at the stock exchange in Frankfurt , Germany , February 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Staff
The pan - European STOXX 600 shed 0.9 % , deepening losses just before close to post their biggest one - day drop in three weeks .
A near 2 % fall in insurance stocks .SXIP led losses after Swiss Re ( SRENH.S ) posted a lower - than - expected annual profit .
The reinsurer ’s shares dropped 8.1 % to a five - week low .
A slide in Spain 's Telefonica ( TEF.MC ) weighed on the Spanish index .IBEX
after the telecoms group said one - off charges in Mexico and Argentina hurt its annual profit ..
“ Today is more of a bottom up day focused on results , ” said Ingo Schachel , head of equity research at Commerzbank , Germany .
Meanwhile , France ’s Schneider Electric ( SCHN.PA ) rallied to an all - time high after its results beat expectations and the firm said it was confident it could offset the impact of the new coronavirus outbreak in China .
But Paris ' main index .FCHI fell 0.8 % as luxury stocks , which derive a chunk of their demand from Chinese customers , fell after a spike in the number of coronavirus cases outside China .
LVMH ( LVMH.PA ) , Kering ( PRTP.PA ) and spirits maker Pernod Ricard ( PERP.PA ) slid between 2.2 % and 3.5 % .
New research suggested the virus could spread more easily than previously believed , with South Korea and Iran reporting more cases of infection , while two passengers in a virus - hit cruise ship in Japan died .
European equity investors also await flash readings of the Purchasing Managers ’ Index ( PMI ) on manufacturing activity in the euro zone , due on Friday .
“ The last few PMIs came in rather weaker and the market is clearly aware that risk bets due to the recent health situation will leave a mark in the PMIs , ” said Commerzbank ’s Schachel .
While traders foresee a hit to the Chinese economy from the health crisis , expectations of a pickup in growth from the second quarter have kept equity markets near record highs .
The benchmark STOXX 600 index has bounced back from a slight dip in January and is on course for its best monthly gain in a year .
Among other individual movers , British medical tech firm Smith Nephew ( SN.L ) jumped 7.3 % as its annual sales topped estimates and it forecast another year of revenue growth .
Norwegian technology firm Tomra Systems ( TOM.OL ) surged 19 % to top the STOXX 600 on strong quarterly results .
Insurer AXA ( AXAF.PA ) fell 3.5 % as it lowered 2020 profit guidance for its companies - focused XL unit , while medical equipment maker Elekta AB ( EKTAb .
ST ) slid after its quarterly operating profit undershot expectations .
The auto index .SXAP was the sole sectoral gainer in Europe with Renault up 3 % while Daimler ( DAIGn . DE ) rose 2.3 % after saying it would slim down its Mercedes management to remove duplicate layers between Mercedes - Benz and Daimler AG .
Reporting by Susan Mathew in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Frances Kerry

PRECIOUS-Gold climbs to 7-year high as virus seen impacting global growth .
2020-02-20 16:45:32 +00:00 .
( Adds comments , updates prices )
* Coronavirus fears grip South Korea , China reports drop * SPDR Gold holdings rise to over 3 - yr peak * Palladium eases from record high
* Coronavirus interactive graphic : tmsnrt.rs/2GVwIyw
By Diptendu Lahiri Feb 20 ( Reuters ) - Gold prices climbed to their highest in seven years on Thursday as an uptick in the number of coronavirus cases in South Korea fueled worries over the wider economic impact of the outbreak .
Spot gold rose 0.3 % to $ 1,616.74 per ounce by 10:55 EST ( 1555 GMT ) , after hitting its highest since February 2013 at $ 1,622.19 .
U.S. gold futures jumped 0.5 % to $ 1,619.60 per ounce .
“ Now that gold has surpassed the $ 1,600 level , more investors and traders will take positions now , ” said Michael Matousek , head trader at U.S. Global Investors .
“ Coronavirus is definitely a factor but we have a bunch of other reasons like ... central banks keeping ( interest ) rates negative , tariff related issues with China and Europe , ” he added .
The epidemic has disrupted China ’s economic growth and a further spread to other countries could derail a “ highly fragile ” projected recovery in the global economy in 2020 , the International Monetary Fund warned on Wednesday .
Even as the number of new coronavirus cases in China slowed , new research suggesting the virus was more contagious than previously thought added to the alarm .
Daegu , a city of 2.5 million people in South Korea , has became the latest victim of coronavirus outside China .
South Korea now has 104 confirmed cases of the flu - like virus , and reported its first death .
Beijing cut the benchmark lending rate and is likely to roll out more measures to support an economy jolted by the virus crisis .
U.S. Fed policymakers also acknowledged new risks caused by the epidemic , but were cautiously optimistic about their ability to hold interest rates steady this year , minutes of the central bank ’s last policy meeting showed on Wednesday .
“ As long as the coronavirus problem is in the headlines , gold prices will be very well supported at current levels .
If the situation deteriorates prices can even go higher , ” said SP Angel analyst Sergey Raevskiy .
Data showed holdings of the world ’s largest gold - backed exchange - traded fund , SPDR Gold Trust , rose 0.2 % to 931.60 tonnes on Wednesday , their highest since November 2016 .
“ Gold is being driven chiefly by robust investment demand : gold ETFs registered inflows for the 21st day of trading in a row yesterday , and speculative financial investors are likely to have further expanded their net long positions as well , ” Commerzbank analysts said in a note .
Elsewhere , palladium fell 1 % to $ 2,686.21 an ounce , having touched a record high of $ 2,841.54 in the previous session on supply deficit concerns .
Silver fell 0.5 % to $ 18.30 , while platinum slipped 2.3 % to $ 982.49 .
( Reporting by Diptendu Lahiri and Sumita Layek in Bengaluru )

Air France-KLM expects coronavirus impact of 200 million euros, could climb higher .
2020-02-20 06:26:12 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) - Air France - KLM ( AIR.PA ) expects the coronavirus outbreak to wipe 150 million to 200 million euros ( $ 162 - 216 million ) off earnings by April , assuming China flights remain suspended until then , the Franco - Dutch airline group said on Thursday .
FILE PHOTO :
The first Air France airliner 's Airbus A350 prepares to take off after a ceremony at the aircraft builder 's headquarters in Colomiers near Toulouse , France , September 27 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Regis Duvignau
As the first European network carrier to publish its full - year results and 2020 outlook , Air France - KLM is likely to be closely watched for signs of the coronavirus ’ impact on the aviation industry beyond its epicenter in Asia .
Like many global airlines , Air France - KLM has canceled mainland China flights through March , basing its impact estimate on the assumption they resume progressively after that .
“ That ’s the hypothesis we ’re using for the moment
but we do n’t know how credible it is , ” Chief Financial Officer Frederic Gagey told reporters ahead of the results announcement .
“ Obviously if it lasts longer , the impact will be heavier . ”
For Air France and stablemate KLM , as for global peers , the January outbreak came just as an easing of global trade tensions seemed to promise stronger demand in 2020 .
After “ significantly positive ” January unit revenue growth , the CFO said , “ that all changed quite brutally ” as the travel lockdown led Air France - KLM to forecast a decline for the first quarter .
Mainland China flights accounted for 5.5 % of the group ’s network traffic in 2019 .
Under new Chief Executive Ben Smith , Air France - KLM needs to fund an ambitious fleet renewal plan including 3.6 billion euros in planned capital expenditure this year .
Revenue rose 1.9 % in the fourth quarter and 3.7 % to 27.189 billion euros for 2019 , while fuel costs drove an 18.8 % decline in full - year operating income to 1.141 billion euros .
The fuel bill is expected to fall by 300 million euros this year .
Analysts had expected operating income of 1.1 billion euros on 27.38 billion in revenue , based on the median of 19 estimates in the company ’s own consensus poll .
Despite weaker pricing on lucrative North Atlantic routes in the fourth quarter , Air France - KLM limited the fallout to a 0.1 % drop in group unit revenue as overall traffic rose 2.9 % , outpacing its 2 % capacity growth .
The group also trimmed 2019 unit costs - measured per seat - kilometer before currency or fuel effects - by 0.9 % , near the top of the 0 - 1 % target range , renewed for this year .
Net income fell by 130 million euros to 290 million .
In the fourth quarter , restructuring of the French domestic network delivered a 7.8 % revenue gain for the short - haul business and a 1.5 % group unit - cost reduction .
But the cutbacks are meeting resistance , with strikes by ground staff and pilots poised to kick off on Friday as unions at domestic carrier Air France Hop press for improved pay , working conditions and job guarantees .
Air France - KLM ’s cargo performance underscored the deterioration in over - supplied air freight markets even before the virus extended Chinese factory shutdowns , halting supply chains .
Cargo revenue dropped by 13.7 % in the fourth quarter and 5.9 % in 2019 as a whole , the group said , blaming what it described as “ the worst traffic - versus capacity trend for the last 10 years ” .
Reporting by Laurence Frost ; Editing by
Lisa Shumaker

FOREX-Safe-haven yen takes a hit as hopes for China stimulus grow .
2020-02-20 00:46:31 +00:00 .
* Graphic : World FX rates in 2020 tmsnrt.rs/2RBWI5E
* Tracking the coronavirus : tmsnrt.rs/3aIRuz7 * Yen tumbles as risk sentiment shifts
* Traders focus on China policy response to virus
* Pound looks ahead to retail sales data
By Stanley White
TOKYO , Feb 20 ( Reuters ) -
The Japanese yen traded near a nine - month low versus the dollar on Thursday as risk appetite improved on expectations that China will continue to take steps to offset the economic impact of the coronavirus outbreak .
The Chinese yuan held steady against the dollar in offshore trade before a widely expected cut in the country ’s benchmark loan prime rate later on Thursday .
The yen was initially bought as a safe - haven asset when the outbreak of the virus in the central Chinese province of Hubei roiled financial markets last month .
However , yen buying is starting to fade as growth in the number of new cases of the virus in mainland China starts to slow .
Signs that Chinese officials are ready to take more drastic measures to support companies hit by the virus is another factor that has reduced demand for safe - haven investments .
“ The yen ’s fall was so sudden that it could bounce back slightly in the very short term , ” said Yukio Ishizuki , foreign exchange strategist at Daiwa Securities in Tokyo .
“ However , sentiment is leaning away from risk - off because China will pull out all the stops to support its economy . ”
The yen traded at 111.27 per dollar in Asia on Thursday , close to the lowest since May 2019 .
Japan ’s currency tumbled 1.3 % on Wednesday , its biggest daily decline since August , after triggering stop loss orders following the expiry of options that had kept the yen in a narrow range versus the dollar , according to Ishizuki .
In the offshore market , the yuan was little changed at 7.0100 per dollar as traders awaited additional policy stimulus from Chinese officials .
The People ’s Bank of China is expected to cut its benchmark rate on Thursday , which would follow a cut the interest rate on its medium - term lending on Monday .
China ’s manufacturing sector is gradually coming back on line after the outbreak of the virus led to temporary factory closures and severe travel restrictions , but many companies and households are likely to struggle due to income lost because of the illness .
China reported on Thursday a drop in new cases of the flu - like virus , and while many investors are sceptical of China ’s reporting methodology , the data has helped risk appetite improve in the currency market .
The Swiss franc , another safe - haven , was quoted at 0.9841 versus the dollar , close to its weakest since December .
Many traders say they remain cautious because the previously unknown virus has resulted in more than 2,000 deaths in China and spread to 24 other countries .
The euro traded at $ 1.0810 , close to its lowest since April 2017 .
The common currency managed to stabilise in Asian trading , but sentiment remains weak after disappointing economic data sent it crashing through closely - watched support levels .
The pound was quoted at $ 1.2924 before data later on Thursday that is forecast to show growth in British retail sales .
Sterling fell 0.6 % on Wednesday as market sentiment is caught between optimism about the economy and pessimism about Britain ’s talks with the European Union for a free trade deal .
( Reporting by Stanley White ;
Editing by Sam Holmes )

Australians arrive home for quarantine after weeks on coronavirus cruise ship .
2020-02-20 00:05:13 +00:00 .
* Australians arrive in Darwin after evacuation from Japan
* Holidaymakers to spend another two weeks in quarantine
* Australian PM to decide whether to extend travel restrictions
By Colin Packham
SYDNEY , Feb 20 ( Reuters ) -
More than 150 Australians arrived home on Thursday to begin two weeks of quarantine after finally disembarking a cruise ship docked in Japan where more than 600 people have contracted the newly identified coronavirus .
The Diamond Princess , owned by Carnival Corp , has been quarantined at Yokohama near Tokyo since Feb. 3 , initially with 3,700 people aboard - including 220 Australian holidaymakers .
The Qantas Airways plane chartered to evacuate the Australians arrived at Darwin shortly before 10:00 a.m.
( 2300 GMT ) , television footage showed .
The exact number of Australians onboard is not known .
Prime Minister Scott Morrison said 169 Australians had asked for evacuation , though those holidaymakers would need to be symptom - free when checked by Japanese health officials prior to boarding the plane .
Morrison will meet with Australia ’s National Security Committee later on Thursday to discuss whether to extend a ban on the arrival of foreigners from mainland China , two sources told Reuters .
Australia has prevented anyone but citizens and permanent residents from entering the country directly from mainland China since Feb. 1 , citing a need to stop the spread of the new flu - like coronavirus that emerged from China late last year .
The restrictions were criticised on Monday by China ’s ambassador to Australia , who described them as “ harsh ” and an “ overreaction ” .
Morrison has said Canberra would be guided by advice from medical experts , despite growing pressure on the Australian economy .
China is Australia ’s largest trading partner and a major source of tourists and fee - paying students .
Australia ’s top central banker this month said the coronavirus epidemic could shave 0.2 percentage points off Australia ’s economic growth in the first quarter of this year .
Reporting by Colin Packham ;
Editing by Stephen Coates

UPDATE 1-European shares notch record high as investors shake off virus fears .
2020-02-19 09:45:11 +00:00 .
* Weaker euro lifts European benchmark index
* Miners lead gains as supply - chain fears subside
* Milan shares hit highest level since 2008
* Germany ’s Adva Optical slumps on virus disruption ( Adds comments , details ; updates prices )
By Sagarika Jaisinghani
Feb 19 ( Reuters ) - European shares notched a fresh record high on Wednesday , supported by a weaker euro , while a decline in the number of new coronavirus cases raised hopes that the impact of the epidemic on the global supply chain would be short - lived .
The pan - European STOXX 600 index added half a percent , after data showed the number of new virus cases in China fell for a second straight day , lending weight to forecasts that the epidemic might ebb by April .
China - exposed miners rose more than 1 % , recovering quickly from a near-2 % slump on Tuesday , when a sales warning by Apple Inc had raised worries about the fallout of the deadly outbreak on industries most reliant on China for supply .
“ The view in the markets is that the Chinese authorities are always going to try and intervene somehow in financial markets , ” said David Madden , markets analyst at CMC Markets in London .
“ So it sort of becomes the case of ‘ bad news is good news ’ . ”
The Chinese central bank has taken several measures to help the world ’s second - biggest economy weather its biggest health crisis since the SARS epidemic in 2002 - 03 , lifting global sentiment and putting world stocks on course for their best month since June 2019 .
Gains in the technology sector nudged Milan shares to their highest level since 2008 , with Apple supplier STMicroelectronics NV the top gainer on the bourse .
The index had closed at its highest in over a decade on Tuesday , propelled by hopes of much - awaited consolidation among Italian banks .
Frankfurt ’s main index rose about 0.4 % , a day after data showed a sharp deterioration in German investor sentiment and sent the euro crashing through a closely watched support level at $ 1.08 .
All eyes will now be on a raft of economic data from the euro zone later in the week , including a flash reading of the Purchasing Managers ’ Index ( PMI ) for France and Germany .
In corporate news , Renault fell 1.6 % after credit rating agency Moody ’s cut its rating on the French carmaker ’s debt to “ junk ” status .
Telecommunications equipment company Adva Optical Networking slumped 13 % to a three - month low after flagging disruptions from the coronavirus outbreak .
On the other hand , German container shipping company Hapag - Lloyd jumped 5 % after raising its 2019 profit forecast on higher freight rates .
( Reporting by Sagarika Jaisinghani in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Shounak Dasgupta and Saumyadeb Chakrabarty )

Foreign pilots at Chinese airlines return home on unpaid leave as demand plummets .
2020-02-19 02:44:13 +00:00 .
BEIJING / SYDNEY ( Reuters ) - Foreign pilots at some Chinese airlines have returned to their home countries and are considering other jobs after being placed on unpaid leave as demand falls because of the coronavirus , affected flight crew told Reuters .
FILE PHOTO :
A China Southern Airlines Airbus commercial passenger aircraft is pictured in Colomiers near Toulouse , France , November 26 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Regis Duvignau / File Photo
Meanwhile , Chinese pilots with greater job security said their income has been sharply reduced because most of their pay is based on flying hours .
Data firm OAG estimates about 80 % of scheduled airline capacity to , from and within China has been cut this week because of SARS - CoV-2 , the virus that has killed more than 2,000 people .
Chinese airlines have been the hardest hit .
Major employers of foreign pilots , including China Southern Airlines Co Ltd ( 600029.SS ) and HNA Group ’s Hainan Airlines Holding Co Ltd ( 600221.SS ) , have acted swiftly to cut their losses , according to pilots and industry experts .
China Southern did not respond immediately to a request for comment , and HNA declined to comment .
“ All the foreign pilots are on leave until the virus situation gets better , ” said an expatriate captain at China Southern who , like all of those who spoke to Reuters , requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak with media .
“ For the moment we are all in our home countries . ”
Expats are typically paid more than local staff and work on contracts , which means they are more expendable in a downturn , industry experts said .
“ We have seen pilots heading back to Australia in January and February due to the stand down and seeking new roles , ” said Kirsty Ferguson , the head of Sydney - based airline interview coaching firm Pinstripe Solutions .
As China ’s airline sector ballooned , it imported foreign experience : the number of foreign pilots flying with Chinese airlines more than doubled to over 1,500 between 2010 and 2019 , according the Civil Aviation Administration of China .
China will need another 124,000 pilots in the next 20 years , according to Boeing , as an expanding middle class drives demand for air travel .
But foreign pilots said being put on leave without pay makes it less likely they ’ll return when demand recovers .
A foreign captain at Fuzhou Airlines , part of HNA Group , said he was placed on unpaid leave when the virus hit and was concerned it would be permanent .
“ They hope people will find other jobs as none can go without pay forever , ” he said .
“ This way they ‘ save their face , ’ and secondly they do n’t feel obliged to dismiss you properly according to the contract . ”
The pilot said that he was looking for jobs closer to home , but that so far those options paid less than in China .
Foreign pilots can make more than $ 300,000 a year there , making it one of the best - paying markets in the world .
A pilot at Tianjin Airlines , also part of HNA Group , said he was told it would be at least three to four months before the carrier starts recalling expatriate captains .
He has found work with another foreign airline , he said .
HNA declined to comment .
A local pilot at China Southern said he was barely flying and as a result was receiving only his base salary , roughly 1/6 to 1/8 of his normal pay .
“ What we can do now is keep a good mentality and enjoy the company of our family at home , ” he said .
“ Eat well , sleep well and exercise well and keep learning .
Build up the energy so that we ’ll be well prepared for whatever comes later . ”
Reporting by Stella Qiu in Beijing and Jamie Freed in Sydney ; additional reporting by Brenda Goh in Shanghai .
Editing by Gerry Doyle

UPDATE 2-Canada tweaks mortgage stress test in move that could boost housing market .
2020-02-18 21:44:14 +00:00 .
( New throughout , adds implications for central bank , economist comment )
By Nichola Saminather and Fergal Smith TORONTO , Feb 18 ( Reuters ) - Canada on Tuesday announced a change to a three - year - old financial stress test designed to reduce risky mortgage lending , potentially reigniting housing markets the measure was meant to cool , and posing a challenge for the nation ’s central bank .
The change , shifting away from banks ’ advertised rates that tend to be higher than actual market rates to determine the minimum qualifying rate , could allow consumers to borrow more even as Toronto and Vancouver , Canada ’s two biggest housing markets , rebound .
James Laird , co - founder at Ratehub.ca , which compares rates on mortgages , insurance and credit cards , said the move will increase the central bank ’s concerns about stimulating the housing market .
“ If they cut rates , fixed - rate mortgages will drop and ... everyone will qualify for more and higher mortgages , ” he added .
While the stress test did help cool housing markets , a supply shortage is already lifting prices again .
The Bank of Canada warned this month that the coronavirus outbreak could hurt Canada ’s economy , after saying last month that a rate cut was possible if a slowdown in domestic growth persists .
A home buyer whose maximum monthly mortgage is C$ 3,000 can now afford a $ 519,000 - home , from $ 503,000 previously , according to Stephen Brown , senior Canada economist at Capital Economics .
The new benchmark for home loans with downpayments of less than 20 % will be the weekly median five - year fixed insured rate calculated from mortgage insurance applications , the finance department said in a statement .
Taking effect on April 6 , it replaces the Bank of Canada ’s five - year benchmark rate , based on banks ’ public rates .
Borrowers will still need to show they can afford a rate two percentage points higher than the benchmark .
Five - year market fixed rates are a little less than 3 % , making the qualifying rate below 5 % , Laird said .
The Bank of Canada ’s posted five - year mortgage rate is 5.19 % .
Canada introduced the stress test for high - ratio mortgages , which are insured by the government housing agency , in October 2016 .
The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions ( OSFI ) is also considering the same change to its stress test , introduced in January 2018 , for mortgages with downpayments of more than 20 % , Canada ’s main financial regulator said in a separate statement .
Canada ’s biggest banks did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
“ Banks in Canada share the goal of ensuring that housing remains stable and well - regulated , while being accessible to those looking to buy homes across Canada ’s diverse housing markets , ” the Canadian Bankers Association said in a statement .
( Reporting by Nichola Saminather and Fergal Smith ;
Editing by Tom Brown and David Gregorio )

Wang strikes to earn Beijing victory over Thai champs Chiangrai .
2020-02-18 17:01:07 +00:00 .
HONG KONG ( Reuters ) - Beijing Guoan showed few signs of rustiness after their Coronavirus - affected start to the Asian Champions League on Tuesday evening , as the Chinese Super League side handed Thailand ’s Chiangrai United a 1 - 0 defeat .
FILE PHOTO :
Soccer Football - 2019 EAFF E-1 Football Championship - Hong Kong v China - Busan Asiad Stadium , Busan , South Korea - December 18 , 2019 China 's Ziming Wang in action with Hong Kong 's Yang Huang REUTERS /
Kim Hong - Ji Wang Ziming scored midway through the first half to secure all three points for Beijing in the Group E meeting as Bruno Genesio ’s side kicked off their continental campaign a week later than scheduled due to the outbreak that has hit mainland China .
Beijing travelled to face the Thai champions after spending much of their pre - season in South Korea .
But they will not feature again in the Asian Champions League until April due to further postponements linked with the spread of the disease .
“ It was a really tough game .
We created a lot of chances but we only scored once , ” said Wang .
“ This is our first game and we were not in very good condition , but I think the best thing is that we won . ”
The win means Beijing join FC Seoul and Melbourne Victory on three points in the early standings in Group E after the South Koreans secured a 1 - 0 win over the Australian side courtesy of a solitary strike from veteran forward Park Chu - young .
Japan ’s FC Tokyo , meanwhile , picked up their first win in the competition thanks to Leandro ’s late goal against Australian debutants Perth Glory in Group F.
The Brazilian ’s curling effort from distance eight minutes before the end gave Kenta Hasegawa ’s side three points to go with the single point earning in their draw with Ulsan Hyundai last week .
In the west of the continent , defending champions Al Hilal picked up their second win in a row as a brace from Bafetimbi Gomis earned a 2 - 1 victory over Shabab Al Ahli from the United Arab Emirates .
That means the club from Saudi Arabia sit on top of Group B with six points alongside Uzbekistan ’s Pakhtakor , who picked up a 3 - 0 win over Iranian side Shahr Khodro .
Saudi Arabia ’s Al Ahli had two goals from Salman Al Moasher to thank for their 2 - 1 success against Iranian side Esteghlal to move on to four points at the top of Group A , where they are joined by Al Wahda from the UAE after their 1 - 0 win over Iraq ’s Al Shorta .
Reporting by Michael Church ;
Editing by Hugh Lawson

CORRECTED-UPDATE 1-India may give reprieve to solar projects delayed by coronavirus fallout .
2020-02-18 15:07:04 +00:00 .
( Corrects story to say that Acme Solar was not among companies that face a July 2020 deadline .
Removes reference to Acme Solar in para 6 and clarifies Acme Solar ’s position in para 7 . )
By Nidhi Verma and Promit Mukherjee NEW DELHI , Feb 18 ( Reuters ) - India will consider extending deadlines for completing solar energy projects to shield developers from stiff penalties after the coronavirus outbreak hit component supplies from China , a top government official said on Tuesday .
Ratings agency Standard and Poor ’s Indian unit , Crisil , warned on Monday that nearly three gigawatts of solar power projects worth $ 2.24 billion could be at risk of penalties for missing a July 2020 completion deadline as the coronavirus hit solar industry supplies .
India buys about 80 % of its solar modules from China , which has shut down some factories , restricted transport and implemented other measures to combat the spread of the virus that has killed 1,868 people in China and infected 72,436 others .
Anand Kumar , India ’s renewable energy secretary , said all the contracts have a ‘ force majeure ’ clause that companies can invoke to secure an extension on the project schedules .
“ We will definitely consider the applications of developers for an extension of timelines provided there is evidence ( to prove that the project has been affected due to coronavirus ) , ” Kumar told Reuters .
Some of the companies who had won projects between July and August 2018 and could be running up against the July 2020 deadline include Aditya Birla Renewables and SoftBank -backed SB Energy , said a banker who has worked with renewable companies in the past .
Acme Solar also won projects between July and August 2018 but said it did not face a July 2020 deadline .
“ None of our projects are affected due to the coronavirus , ” said a spokesman for Acme Solar .
“ We have executed all our projects on time always and we will continue to execute our projects in the pipeline on time , ” the spokesman said .
Aditya Birla Renewables and SB Energy did not respond to emails on Tuesday asking if they would meet the project completion deadlines .
Indian rules impose monetary penalties for a three - month delay in commissioning of a project , while projects delayed further also face downward revisions in tariffs .
Tariffs at which a company will sell the power to customers are quoted when the developer bids for a project .
“ We can not predict when China will start production of solar modules and cells , ” said C. Narasimhan , president of the Indian Solar Association .
“ The government should look at extending the deadline without renegotiating the tariff . ”
Purchasing of solar modules from elsewhere would be between 15 % and 20 % more costly , and could erode returns from the affected projects , said Crisil , without identifying individual projects .
Orders for modules are mostly placed six months ahead of the start of commercial operations .
Narasimhan , who also heads Raasi Group , which is building a 100 - megawatt solar power project at Tamil Nadu in southern India , said Raasi was also requesting an extension to avoid facing any penalties , including a downward revision in tariffs .
“ We ’re discussing it with state government officials ... as this particular situation is beyond our control . ”
he said .
Reporting by Nidhi Verma and Promit Mukherjee ;
Editing by Euan Rocha and Susan Fenton

Coronavirus dents bookings for Holiday Inn owner IHG .
2020-02-18 14:27:50 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
InterContinental Hotels(IHG ) warned on Tuesday that fewer travellers are booking its rooms in China because of the coronavirus outbreak .
FILE PHOTO :
A general view of the Intercontinental Shanghai Wonderland , a hotel built on the site of a former quarry , before its opening to the public in Shanghai , China , November 15 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Aly Song / File Photo
The owner of the Holiday Inn chain has been highlighted by analysts as among the European companies most directly exposed to the epidemic .
The group had begun to see an impact on bookings in late January and has now closed or partially closed 160 of its 470 hotels in Greater China , it said on Tuesday .
The company ’s annual results on Tuesday showed that revenue per available room ( RevPAR ) had already declined by 4.5 % last year in Greater China while performance in European and U.S. markets was little changed .
Based on current disruption the impact equates to about $ 5 million a month for IHG ’s mainland China business , Chief Executive Keith Barr said on an analysts call , describing the decline as “ a short - term blip ” .
Barr added that the region contributes less than 10 % of group profit .
IHG last month said that up to Feb. 3 it would allow customers to change or cancel stays in mainland China , Hong Kong , Macau and Taiwan at no additional cost .
Rival Airbnb last week extended its suspension of bookings in Beijing until April 30 .
Rival Hilton Worldwide has shut roughly 150 hotels in China , which could hit adjusted core profit in the first quarter by between $ 10 million and $ 20 million , Chief Executive Christopher J. Nassetta said this month .
One yardstick for the impact of the crisis on the company is the previous SARS outbreak , which cut IHG ’s RevPAR in the Asia Pacific region by 27 % in the three months to June 2003 .
There is more at stake this time .
In 2003 IHG had little more than 40 hotels in China .
Now more than 400 of its almost 6,000 hotels worldwide are in Greater China and it is constructing almost as many again .
The company has been investing heavily in China , its fastest - growing market , and has revamped rooms at Holiday Inns to woo local business travellers .
It plans to open 393 hotels in China and operates four hotels in Wuhan , the centre of the coronavirus outbreak .
“ It ( Greater China ) is , though , a smaller part of our business overall , representing 15 % of our open rooms and less than 10 % of our operating profit , ” said IHG finance chief Paul Edgecliffe - Johnson .
Reporting by Tanishaa Nadkar and Pushkala Aripaka in Bengaluru ;
Editing by David Goodman

Oil prices slip ahead of data pointers on impact of coronavirus on demand .
2020-02-17 01:38:11 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) - Oil prices edged lower on Monday as investors brace for economic data in Asia due this week that should give a reading on how China ’s coronavirus epidemic has affected oil demand .
FILE PHOTO :
A oil pump is seen at sunset outside Scheibenhard , near Strasbourg , France , October 6 , 2017 .
REUTERS / Christian Hartmann Brent crude LCOc1 was at $ 56.99 a barrel , down 33 cents by 0121 GMT after rising 5.2 % last week , the biggest weekly gain since September 2019 .
U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude CLc1 fell 13 cents to $ 51.92 a barrel , after a 3.4 % gain last week .
The weekly gains , the first since early January , were spurred by hopes that stimulus measures taken by China to support its economy amid the coronavirus outbreak could lead to a recovery in oil demand in the world ’s largest importing country .
But the International Energy Agency ( IEA ) said the virus is already set to cause oil demand to fall by 435,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) in the first quarter from the same period a year ago , in what would be the first quarterly drop since the depths of the financial crisis in 2009 .
Analysts at Capital Economics said over the weekend that it is too soon to start assessing the longer - term economic fallout from the epidemic .
“ Attention will be paid ( this week ) to the range of flash manufacturing PMIs ( purchasing managers ’ indices ) for February , particularly those in Asia , as these should provide an early indication of how significantly the virus is affecting global manufacturing supply chains , ” Capital Economics said .
“ We expect the data to be weak , but if they are better - than - expected then industrial commodity prices could see further gains . ”
Investors are also anticipating that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) and its allies , including Russia , will approve a proposal to deepen production cuts in a move to tighten global supplies and support oil prices .
The group , also known as OPEC+ , has an agreement to cut oil output by 2.1 million bpd until the end of March .
A technical committee has recommended the group reduces production by another 600,000 bpd because of the impact from the coronavirus on China ’s oil demand .
Russia , facing a growing oil glut , could support further output cuts .
Reporting by Florence Tan ;
Editing by Kenneth Maxwell

U.S. to evacuate American citizens aboard quarantined cruise ship off Japan - WSJ .
2020-02-15 07:43:59 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) -
The U.S. government is preparing to evacuate American citizens aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship , the site of the most coronavirus infections found outside China and currently quarantined off Japan , the Wall Street Journal reported .
FILE PHOTO :
A passenger wearing a mask stands on the deck of the cruise ship Diamond Princess , as the vessel 's passengers continue to be tested for coronavirus , at Daikoku Pier Cruise Terminal in Yokohama , south of Tokyo , Japan February 13 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Kim Kyung - Hoon / File Photo About 380 people will be offered seats on two planes back to the United States and could arrive back home as early as Sunday , the newspaper said , adding that those with a fever , cough or other symptoms will not be allowed on the flights .
Evacuees will have additional health screenings in the United States and some will probably undergo a mandatory quarantine , which will likely be 14 days , Henry Walke , an official at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) , was quoted as saying .
The CDC was not immediately available for comment .
The U.S. and Japanese governments said they have been in close contact with each other , but declined to confirm the report .
“ We have had various exchanges with the U.S. government about how to respond to the situation , ” Masato Otaka , press secretary for Japan ’s Foreign Ministry , said via email .
One U.S. passenger , Sawyer Smith , 25 , told Reuters that passengers had been told there would be an announcement from the captain later .
The prospect of potentially more time in quarantine seemed to dishearten others .
“ We would like to just finish the quarantine on the ship as planned , decompress in a non - quarantine environment in Japan for a few days , then fly back to the U.S. pursuant to our own arrangements .
What ’s wrong with that ? , ” tweeted passenger Matthew Smith .
The cruise liner ’s quarantine is set to end on Feb. 19 .
The Diamond Princess cruise ship , owned by Carnival Corp , has been quarantined since arriving in Yokohama on Feb. 3 , after a man who disembarked in Hong Kong before it travelled to Japan was diagnosed with the virus .
At the time , it had some 3,500 passengers and crew on board , of whom 218 have tested positive for the coronavirus infection and are now in Japanese hospitals .
Reporting by Kiyoshi Takenaka ; Additional reporting by William Mallard and Ju - min Park in Tokyo and Aakriti Bhalla in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Edwina Gibbs

Dying a desperate death: A Wuhan family's coronavirus ordeal .
2020-02-14 07:16:54 +00:00 .
BEIJING ( Reuters ) - There were no doctors , nurses or medical equipment at the Wuhan hotel converted into a temporary quarantine facility for suspected coronavirus patients when brothers Wang Xiangkai and Wang Xiangyou arrived two weeks ago .
A medical worker puts on a protective suit before entering a sports centre which has been converted into a makeshift hospital to treat patients of the novel coronavirus , in Wuhan , Hubei province , China February 12 , 2020 .
cnsphoto via REUTERS
The next day , Xiangkai , 61 , woke to find that Xiangyou , 62 , had died .
The Wangs are among tens of thousands of families devastated by the coronavirus in Wuhan , where the medical system has been overwhelmed by the outbreak , despite massive reinforcements and two speedily built new hospitals .
“ What did we do to deserve such punishment ? ”
Wang Wenjun , Xiangkai ’s daughter , said over the phone to Reuters .
A crematorium sent a car to pick up Xiangyou ’s body , but the family was told no mourning ceremony would be allowed .
They could only collect his ashes after 15 days .
Two days before Xiangyou died , doctors at the 4th Hospital of Wuhan had written in a diagnosis that both brothers were likely infected by the coronavirus which has now killed over 1,350 people in China .
CT scans showed their lungs had turned “ white ” with patterns resembling cracked glass , symptomatic of severe viral infections .
But the hospital did not have any RNA test kits to confirm their cases , and thus could not admit them for treatment , according to the doctors .
They were told to contact their community government , which on Jan. 30 offered to house the brothers at the hotel .
Hubei province on Thursday reported a sharp rise in the number of deaths and cases after changing its methodology to include those diagnosed through CT scans like Xiangyou .
More than 63,000 people have now been infected nationwide and 1,380 have died .
Xiangkai , a retired cab driver , refused to remain at the Echarm hotel after his brother died , instead staying alone at a relative ’s home .
His wife visited daily , bringing food and Chinese medicine , until she too fell ill with what doctors suspect is the coronavirus .
Wenjun lives on the other side of Wuhan .
Closed transportation lines means she is unable to visit her parents .
Desperate for treatment for her father , she issued a plea for help on the Twitter - like Weibo .
The community government responded , saying the decision was up to the virus taskface .
At around midnight on Monday , the family received a call saying a hospital bed was available .
With no public transport , Wang ’s 58 - year - old wife pushed him in a wheelchair for the 10 - minute trip to the hospital .
A new CT scan showed Xiangkai ’s lung infection had worsened .
He now has trouble walking to the toilet on his own and is awaiting the results of an RNA test .
“ On Jan. 22 , our entire family had a Lunar New Year dinner , and we even took a photo together .
It has been bad news every day since then , ” Wenjun said .
Reporting by Yawen Chen ;
Editing by Karishma Singh and Kim Coghill

Gilead drug prevents type of coronavirus in monkeys; raises hope for China trials .
2020-02-13 22:51:10 +00:00 .
CHICAGO ( Reuters ) -
An experimental Gilead Sciences ( GILD.O ) antiviral drug prevented disease and reduced the severity of symptoms in monkeys infected with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome ( MERS ) , an infection closely related to the fast - spreading coronavirus that originated in China , a study published on Thursday found .
FILE PHOTO :
A man wearing a mask is seen at the Shanghai railway station in Shanghai , China , as the country is hit by an outbreak of the novel coronavirus , February 12 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Aly Song / File Photo
The results , reported in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , raise hope that the drug , remdesivir , currently in clinical trials in China , might be effective against the new virus that has infected some 60,000 people globally , and killed more than 1,300 , mostly in China .
However , remdesivir had previously been shown to be protective in monkeys infected with the Ebola virus , but that did not translate to humans .
“ It was n’t successful in Ebola , but there is some indication that it might be successful in the coronaviruses , ” Dr. Anthony Fauci , director of the U.S. National Institute on Allergy and Infectious Diseases ( NIAID ) , said in a recent interview .
NIAID scientists tested remdesivir in monkeys 24 hours prior to infection with MERS and in other monkeys 12 hours after infection - the time frame in monkeys when the virus is most active .
They were compared with untreated monkeys in a control group .
After six days , all of the untreated animals got sick .
In the monkeys treated prior to infection , the drug appeared to prevent disease .
Animals in this group showed no sign of infection , had significantly lower levels of virus in their lungs and no lung damage .
Those treated after infection also fared better than the control group .
They had less severe disease , their lungs had lower levels of virus and they had less severe lung damage , researchers found .
Many drugs that succeed in monkeys fail in humans .
Nevertheless , the researchers said their findings bolster hopes for the ongoing studies in China and for compassionate use of the drug in severely ill patients .
The MERS study was supported in part by the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ( BARDA ) , part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services .
A state - run Chinese research institute applied last week fora patent to use Gilead ’s experimental drug against the new coronavirus .
Dr. Marie - Paule Kieny , a former World Health Organization virologist who co - chaired a research forum in Geneva this week , said Chinese researchers will soon start testing the drug on patients , but it could be a few weeks before they know whether it is having any effect .
Reporting by Julie Steenhuysen ;
Editing by Bill Berkrot

Fear of virus unnerves castaway cruise ship's Cambodian port .
2020-02-13 07:41:45 +00:00 .
SIHANOUKVILLE , Cambodia ( Reuters ) - Cambodians voiced unease on Thursday at the arrival of a cruise ship that has been turned away by five countries in fear of the new coronavirus - despite having no suspected cases onboard .
MS Westerdam , a cruise ship that has been turned away by five countries over fears that someone aboard may have the coronavirus , is seen arriving in Sihanoukville port in Cambodia February 13 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Stringer
In fact , the port of Sihanoukville , a major Chinese gambling centre where some 1,455 passengers from the MS Westerdam were due to disembark after two weeks at sea is the only place in Cambodia to have recorded a case of the virus so far .
“ Do n’t they understand the wellbeing of people in Sihanoukville ? ” asked food vendor Siv Muoy .
“ Even though they said there is no infection , we are still worried because five countries rejected the ship . ”
The enforced wandering of a ship full of people who are n’t suspected to have the virus has highlighted the level of fear in the region over the new form of flu that has killed more than 1,300 people , almost all of them in China .
Cambodia ’s agreement to accept the ship after it was turned back from Japan , Taiwan , Guam , the Philippines and Thailand was welcomed by the World Health Organization - rare foreign praise for a country more often accused of human rights abuses .
“ I do n’t understand why the government allowed this ship to dock , ” complained 32 - year - old Sihanoukville taxi driver Siek Pros .
Preah Sihanouk governor Kuoch Chamroeun declined to comment when asked about the concerns of people in Sihanoukville .
Cambodian authorities are due to carry out health checks for the presence of the coronavirus before passengers are allowed to leave the Westerdam .
The ship also has 802 crew .
Buses will take passengers to Sihanoukville ’s international airport as the next step on their homeward journeys .
CASINO CITY
It is unclear how much time they will get to spend in Sihanoukville .
“ Imagine the relief you ’d feel upon hearing that you ’re finally going to be allowed to set foot on land after weeks at sea ... then imagine the feeling when you disembark at the Sihanoukville port and see the land in question , ” tweeted Lina Goldberg , author of Move to Cambodia .
Sihanoukville , which has Cambodia ’s only deep - water port , was carved out of the jungle in the 1960s and named after former King Norodom Sihanouk .
Once a playground for Cambodia ’s elite , it fell on hard times during the Khmer Rouge genocide and conflicts of the 1970s and 1980s before becoming a tranquil - if somewhat down - at - heel - stop for backpackers and other Westerners .
In recent years it has been transformed .
Dozens of towering hotels and casinos sprang up with Chinese investment until a ban on online gambling last year led to an exodus of tens of thousands of Chinese .
Many building sites were abandoned .
Provincial authorities reported last year that more than 90 percent of businesses in the city were Chinese owned .
The first case of the coronavirus in Cambodia was discovered a Sihanoukville .
The patient , a 60 - year - old Chinese man from the epicentre of the virus in Wuhan , made a full recovery .
Passengers on board the Westerdam have been subjected to regular health checks , according to Holland America , the ship operator and a unit of
Miami - based Carnival Corp.
Stoking fears in countries on the ship ’s route has been the quarantine in Japan of the Diamond Princess cruise ship , also managed by a unit of Carnival Corp.
Of the 3,700 on that vessel , 175 tested positive for the virus .
Writing by Matthew Tostevin ;
Editing by Neil Fullick

Pernod Ricard cuts annual profit growth forecast due to China virus .
2020-02-13 07:31:20 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) - French spirits group Pernod Ricard ( PERP.PA ) cut its full - year profit growth outlook for 2019 - 2020 on Thursday , saying the coronavirus epidemic in China was likely to have a severe impact on its third - quarter performance .
FILE PHOTO :
A logo is seen on a bottle of the Ricard aniseed - flavoured beverage displayed during French drinks maker Pernod Ricard news conference to announce the company annual results in Paris , France , August 29 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Christian Hartmann / File Photo
The company , which makes 10 % of its sales in China , said it could not currently predict the duration and impact of the crisis , but added it nevertheless remained confident on its overall corporate strategy .
Pernod , the world ’s second - biggest spirits group behind Diageo ( DGE.L ) , is now targeting an organic rise of between 2 % and 4 % in profit from recurring operations for the year to June 30 , 2019 .
That compares to a previous forecast for 5%-7 % growth .
The group , which makes Martell cognac , issued the warning as it nevertheless posted forecast - beating first - half results , helped by cost cuts and shipments tied to the earlier timing of the Chinese New Year , which started on Jan. 25 this year against Feb. 5 in 2019 .
First - half profit from current operations reached 1.788 billion euros ( $ 1.9 billion ) , an organic rise of 4.3 % , above analysts ’ expectations for a 3 % increase .
Sales reached 5.474 billion euros in the six months to Dec. 31 , an organic rise of 2.7 % , which was also above analysts ’ expectations for 2.1 % growth .
This reflected an 11 % rise in revenues in China , driven by double - digit growth in Martell cognac sales in the second quarter .
Asia Pacific accounts for 44 % of Pernod Ricard ’s sales and is a key growth driver for the group .
China is Pernod ’s second largest market after the United States , accounting for around 10 % of sales , and the company has been banking on China ’s growing middle class and younger generation to further boost sales .
Pernod said that while its strong Chinese New Year shipment program was being executed , “ replenishment after the New Year and on - trade activities were uncertain ” .
Its current assumptions were for a gradual recovery in bars and restaurants from March in China and a return to normal in June , and for a recovery in March in store business .
Lost sales in China , which according to credit rating agency Moody ’s consumes 26 % of global alcoholic beverage volumes , and from the Asia travel retail market could cut 2 % off Pernod ’s 2020 sales and 3 % from its profit from recurring operations .
Pernod is under pressure from U.S. hedge fund Elliott , which has a 2.5 % stake , to improve profit margins and corporate governance .
In February 2019 , Pernod vowed to lift its margins and shareholder returns under a three - year strategic plan that Elliott has described as a first small step .
Reporting by Dominique Vidalon ; Editing by Sudip Kar - Gupta and
Jan Harvey

UPDATE 2-Japan to let elderly leave cruise liner hit by coronavirus as 44 new cases confirmed .
2020-02-13 05:39:48 +00:00 .
* Passengers in 80s , older who test negative may leave from Friday
* End of quarantine targeted for Feb. 19 * Total Diamond Princess passenger , crew cases rise to 218 ( Adds comments about Tokyo Olympics , returnees heading home )
By Chang - Ran Kim and Linda Sieg
TOKYO , Feb 13 ( Reuters ) - Japan will allow some elderly passengers on a quarantined cruise liner who test negative for the new coronavirus to disembark ahead of schedule , the health minister said on Thursday , as another 44 new cases were confirmed aboard the Diamond Princess .
Health Minister Katsunobu Kato said elderly passengers who have pre - existing conditions or are in windowless rooms would be allowed to leave starting from Friday , rather than the originally targeted date of Feb. 19 , and complete their quarantine ashore .
With the number of those infected on the cruise ship now up to 218 plus one quarantine officer , concerns have been raised about conditions on the ship , where about 3,500 people remain on board .
The liner was quarantined on arrival in Yokohama , near Tokyo , on Feb. 3 after a man who disembarked from the liner in Hong Kong before it travelled to Japan was diagnosed with the virus that has now killed more than 1,350 in mainland China .
About 80 % of the ship passengers were aged 60 or over , with 215 in their 80s and 11 in their 90s , according to Japanese media .
The ship typically has a crew of 1,100 and a passenger capacity of 2,670 .
“ We will make every effort to ensure the safety and peace of mind of the people , ” Kato told a televised news conference , without confirming the number of passengers who may leave ahead of schedule .
The minister said those who fit the criteria and wished to disembark would be housed in unspecified facilities provided by the Japanese government .
Those who had been in close contact with persons who tested positive would not be allowed to leave the ship , he said .
The British - flagged Diamond Princess is managed by Princess Cruise Lines , one of the world ’s largest cruise lines and a unit of Carnival Corp. Kyodo news agency said the additional 44 cases included 43 passengers and one crew member , with the total number of confirmed cases in Japan rising to 247 , including those infected on the Diamond Princess .
The spread of the virus has raised concerns about possible impact on the Summer Olympics to be held in Tokyo from July 24 .
Tokyo 2020 Olympics President Yoshiro Mori repeated on Thursday that the Games would go ahead as planned .
“ I would like to clearly reiterate that cancellation or postponement of the Tokyo Games are not being considered , ” he said at the start of a meeting with International Olympic Committee Coordination Commission Chief John Coates .
Hundreds of infections have been reported in more than two dozen countries and territories besides China , but only two people have died from the virus outside mainland China - one in Hong Kong and another in the Philippines .
Japanese nationals who ’ve been staying in hotels or other facilities since returning on four charter flights from China ’s Wuhan , the epicentre of the epidemic , have begun going home .
All 197 people from a Jan. 29 flight who tested negative were either home or enroute and another 200 or so from a second flight could head home later on Thursday , public broadcaster NHK said .
Additional reporting by Antoni Slodkowski and Kiyoshi
Takenaka ; Writing by Linda Sieg ;
Editing by David Dolan and Kenneth Maxwell

Oil prices rise from 13-month low as new virus cases slow .
2020-02-11 19:32:58 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) - Oil prices edged up from 13 - month lows on Tuesday as the number of new coronavirus cases slowed in China , easing some concern over the potential for lengthy oil demand destruction .
FILE PHOTO :
Drilling rigs operate at sunset in Midland , Texas , U.S. , February 13 , 2019.REUTERS / Nick Oxford / File Photo
The death toll surpassed 1,000 on Tuesday , though the number of new confirmed cases fell .
The epidemic could peak in February and then plateau before easing , said the Chinese government ’s top medical adviser on the outbreak .
Brent crude LCOc1 was up 85 cents , or 1.6 % , at $ 54.12 a barrel by 2:12 p.m. EST ( 1912 GMT ) , having dropped on Monday to its lowest since January last year at $ 53.11 .
U.S. West Texas Intermediate CLc1 crude was up 41 cents , or 0.8 % , at $ 49.98
“ It is way too early to definitely state that the peak of the virus is in place , but optimism is growing , ” INTL FCStone said in a note .
“ Prices will mildly recover in the meantime , as the virus slowly eases , and OPEC members lack any actions moving forward thus far on steps to support prices , ” it said .
Investors remain wary that China ’s oil demand could take a further hit if the coronavirus can not be contained and if the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) and its allies , known as OPEC+ , fail to agree on further steps to support prices .
“ The lack of any coordinated action by OPEC+ means that oversupply concerns are likely to retain the upper hand , ” said Commerzbank analyst Eugen Weinberg .
The virus is already denting demand in the world ’s second - largest oil consumer .
Chinese state refiners plan to cut as much as 940,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) - almost 1 % of world demand - from their crude processing rates in February .
The U.S. Energy Information Administration cut its global oil demand growth forecast for this year by 310,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) after the coronavirus outbreak .
Oil also got a boost from a rally in world equities , which resumed their climb toward record highs on Tuesday on hopes the virus is peaking .
OPEC and allies including Russia are restraining output by 1.7 million bpd in 2020 to support the market and have been considering further curbs .
An OPEC+ advisory panel proposed an additional cut of 600,000 bpd last week , but Russia has delayed delivering its official stance , frustrating some OPEC members .
In a development that could add to downward pressure on prices , U.S. crude inventories are expected to rise for a third straight week , by 2.9 million barrels in the week ended on Feb. 7 , a Reuters poll showed .
EIA / S U.S. supply reports are due later on Tuesday and on Wednesday .
Additional reporting by Alex Lawler and Seng Li Peng ;
Editing by Chris Reese and Lisa Shumaker

Dollar hits highest since October on Powell's upbeat economic view .
2020-02-11 14:39:02 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
The dollar hit a four - month high against the euro on Tuesday as investors chased higher returns in the U.S. , and after Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell adopted an upbeat view of the U.S. economy .
FILE PHOTO :
Euro , Hong Kong dollar , U.S. dollar , Japanese yen , pound and Chinese 100 yuan banknotes are seen in this picture illustration , January 21 , 2016 .
REUTERS / Jason Lee / Illustration / File Photo
The greenback has gained against the single currency as data reinforces a view that the U.S. economic outlook is more favorable than that of the euro zone , and on safety buying on concerns about the economic impact of the coronavirus outbreak that originated in China .
Low volatility across most of the foreign exchange market has also encouraged investors to seek out carry trades , where they borrow in low - yielding currencies such as the euro and the franc and invest in dollars or other high - yielding currencies .
“ One of the big prevailing narratives right now is for the carry trade , ” said Erik Nelson , a currency strategist at Wells Fargo in New York .
“ As volatility seems to be non - existent in the FX market a lot of people are piling into this short euro , long higher beta , higher interest rate currencies . ”
At the same time , “ you ’re looking at a euro zone economy that just ca n’t seem to get a lot of traction , ” Nelson said .
“ That ’s also more fundamentally supporting this idea that the euro is sort of flat on its back right now . ”
The euro EUR= fell as low as $ 1.0892 on Tuesday , the lowest since Oct. 1 , before rising back to $ 1.0907 .
Comments by Powell on Tuesday affirmed the view that the U.S. central bank is unlikely to change interest rates in the near term .
Over the second half of 2019 “ the economy appeared resilient to the global headwinds that had intensified last summer , ” Powell said in remarks to the House Financial Services Committee , as economic activity increased further and the labor market strengthened .
With risks like trade policy uncertainty receding and global growth stabilizing , Powell signaled he saw no reason to adjust U.S. interest rates , unless new developments cause a “ material reassessment ” to the current outlook .
Concerns about the spread of the coronavirus also maintained a safe haven bid for the U.S. dollar .
The death toll in mainland China from the outbreak climbed past 1,000 on Tuesday , but the number of new confirmed cases fell .
Editing by Bernadette Baum

Fed's Harker says central bank should hold rates steady for a while .
2020-02-10 23:09:21 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
The U.S. economy is in good shape and the Federal Reserve should hold rates steady for the time being , a top Fed official said on Monday .
FILE PHOTO :
The Federal Reserve building is pictured in Washington , DC , U.S. , August 22 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Chris Wattie / File Photo Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank President Patrick Harker said he expects economic growth to reach 2 % this year and that the unemployment rate could stay below 4 % for a couple of years , according to remarks prepared for a speech in Newark , Delaware .
“ My own view right now is that we should hold steady for a while and watch how developments and the data unfold before taking any more action , ” said Harker , noting he thinks the economy is on track to reach the central bank ’s 2 % inflation target .
Fed officials left rates unchanged at last month ’s policy meeting , with the target range for its benchmark rate at 1.50 % to 1.75 % .
Policymakers said rates are well positioned following three rate reductions last year and signaled rates are likely to stay on hold unless there is a substantial change to the economic outlook .
Harker , who became a voting member for policy decisions last year , did not support the last two rate reductions .
He said before last month ’s meeting that there could be downside to lower rates , which could encourage investors to take more risk .
On Monday , Harker said lower mortgage rates could lead more homeowners to refinance their loans , a shift that could boost consumer spending .
Still , there are several risks that could drag down the economy , Harker said .
Businesses are hesitating to invest on hiring and equipment because of uncertainty over trade , the global economy and geopolitical tensions , he said .
Concerns over the coronavirus outbreak could also affect economic growth , he said .
“ It ’s too early to say what impact the spread of the coronavirus will have on the global economy , but the negative effects on the Chinese economy and international travel are something to watch , ” Harker said .
During a panel after he delivered his remarks , Harker said
he thought reducing interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point is unlikely to offer much relief to companies whose supply chains were interrupted because of virus - related shutdowns .
However , he added , “ If the situation gets significantly worse and we start to see significant impact on the U.S. economy , then we have to think about accommodating .
But I do n’t think we ’re at that point right now . ”
Reporting by Jonnelle Marte ;
Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Dan Grebler

UPDATE 3-Five Britons contract coronavirus in French ski resort .
2020-02-08 12:48:23 +00:00 .
( Updates with number of people hospitalised , British reaction )
By Marine Pennetier
PARIS , Feb 8 ( Reuters ) -
Five British nationals on a ski trip have been diagnosed with the new coronavirus at a mountain resort in France , after staying in the same chalet with a person who had been in Singapore , French health officials said on Saturday .
The new cases emerged after authorities began to retrace the recent travels of a British man who has been confirmed by Britain to have contracted the virus in recent days , senior health official Jerome Salomon told a news conference .
The group of people newly infected with the virus , who include a child , are not in a serious condition , Health Minister Agnes Buzyn said .
They had formed “ a cluster , a grouping around one original case ” , Buzyn said , adding they had stayed in the same chalet , described as “ isolated ” , in the Contamines - Montjoie resort in Savoie in eastern France .
Contamines is in the French Alps , close to the Swiss city of Geneva and the Mont Blanc peak .
The cases coincide with one of the busiest periods of the ski season for resorts in the area , as many French schools begin mid - term holidays .
British schools are also on half - term break later this month .
“ That original case was brought to our attention last night , it is a British national who had returned from Singapore where he had stayed between January 20 and 23 , and he arrived in France on January 24 for four days , ” Buzyn said .
In total , 11 people who came into contact with the original virus carrier , and including the five who tested positive , have been hospitalised in the region , in the cities of Lyon , Grenoble and Saint - Etienne .
Two of the apartments in the ski chalet were being examined , health officials said .
People who had come into “ prolonged and close contact ” with those infected were being informed and were receiving instructions , but no other people in the resort had been affected at present , they added .
The French government had been in touch with Singapore and Britain , and Singaporean authorities were looking into a business congress that took place in a hotel there on Jan. 20 - 23 and was attended by 94 foreigners , they said .
The British man now known to be at the origin of the latest group of French cases - the third person in Britain who has tested positive for the illness - had travelled to that meeting , according to health officials in Singapore .
A UK foreign office spokesman said that Britain was seeking information on the new French cases and was ready to offer any support needed .
The new cases brought the total number of people infected with the virus in France to 11 .
The earlier ones include an 80 - year - old Chinese man in a serious condition , while the others have shown signs of improvement in recent days , according to medical officials .
The epidemic began in Wuhan in China and the vast majority of cases have been in China .
( Additional reporting by Alistair Smout in London and Sarah White in Paris Writing by Sarah White Editing by David Evans and Frances Kerry )

Oil rises on likely OPEC+ output cuts amid coronavirus outbreak .
2020-02-07 07:25:43 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Oil prices advanced on Friday after Russia said it backs a recommendation for OPEC and other producers to cut their output further amid falling demand for crude as China battles the coronavirus epidemic .
FILE PHOTO :
Pump jacks operate in front of a drilling rig in an oil field in Midland , Texas U.S. August 22 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Nick Oxford Brent crude futures rose 24 cents , or 0.4 % , to $ 55.17 a barrel by 0547 GMT , but were heading for a fifth weekly loss amid lingering fears over the impact of the virus .
U.S. West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) crude futures were up 15 cents , or 0.3 % , at $ 51.10 a barrel , also heading for a fifth consecutive week of losses .
Prices came off earlier highs in the session after China ’s central bank governor said the world ’s second - biggest economy may experience disruptions in the first quarter , while Japan announced a big jump in confirmed coronavirus cases among thousands of passengers confined to a cruise liner off its coast .
A panel advising the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) and allies led by Russia , known as the OPEC+ group , suggested provisionally cutting output by 600,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) , three sources told Reuters on Thursday .
“ We support this idea , ” said Sergei Lavrov , Russia ’s Foreign Minister , when asked about the proposal at a news conference in Mexico City later in the day .
The OPEC+ group , which pumps more than 40 % of the world ’s oil , has been withholding supply and agreed to deepen the cuts by 500,000 bpd from the start of this year , to 1.7 million bpd , nearly 2 % of global demand .
“ The OPEC+ cuts are supportive of prices near term , but we are still facing uncertainty about the timing and speed of Chinese activity restarting post Chinese New Year , ” said Lachlan Shaw , head of commodities research at National Australia Bank in Melbourne .
Stimulus measures by the People ’s Bank of China ( PBOC ) are also supporting prices , Shaw said .
The PBOC has pumped hundreds of billions of dollars into the financial sector this week to help steady markets and boost the economy , along with other measures .
Eurasia group said it estimates a contraction in oil demand in China , the world ’s biggest importer of crude , of as much 3 million bpd in the first quarter from 2019 levels .
Meanwhile JPMorgan cut its estimate for Brent to average $ 60.40 a barrel in 2020 , down $ 4.1 compared with its earlier forecast .
Oil prices have fallen by more than a fifth since the outbreak of the virus in the city of Wuhan in China .
Reporting by Aaron Sheldrick ;
Editing by Kenneth Maxwell

Taiwan accuses China of giving WHO wrong information about virus cases on island .
2020-02-06 12:23:18 +00:00 .
TAIPEI / GENEVA ( Reuters ) - Taiwan accused China on Thursday of providing the World Health Organization ( WHO ) with wrong information about the number of coronavirus cases on the island , after the WHO published incorrect case numbers earlier this week .
FILE PHOTO :
A logo is pictured on the headquarters of the World Health Orgnaization ( WHO ) ahead of a meeting of the Emergency Committee on the novel coronavirus ( 2019 - nCoV ) in Geneva , Switzerland , January 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Denis Balibouse At the WHO headquarters in Geneva , the United States and China clashed over the issue of Taiwan ’s exclusion from participating in WHO meetings , where it is represented by China .
On Tuesday , the WHO corrected the number of cases reported on the island after having said there were 13 .
At the time Taiwan had only 10 .
Taiwan said on Thursday there were now 13 cases .
Taiwan Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Joanne Ou told a news conference that the crux of the problem was China giving the wrong case number details to the WHO .
“ This was wrong information that was provided by China which created the mistake , ” she said .
Ou said Taiwan had also protested to the WHO for again changing how they refer to the island , which it now calls “ Taipei and environs ” , having previously called it “ Taiwan , China ” , then “ Taipei municipality ” and then just “ Taipei ” .
“ We beseech the WHO not to put Taiwan ’s information under China , creating mistake after mistake after mistake . ”
Taiwan says the main consequence of that so far has been Italy including Taiwan in its ban on flights from China .
Taiwan is not a WHO member because China , which views the island as a wayward Chinese province and not a country , says it adequately represents Taiwan in the organisation .
Democratically governed Taiwan says it is an independent country called the Republic of China - its formal name - and has never been part of the People ’s Republic of China .
“ For the rapidly evolving coronavirus , it is a technical imperative that WHO present visible public health data on Taiwan as an affected area and engage directly with Taiwan public health authorities on actions , ” Andrew Bremberg , U.S. ambassador to the U.N. in Geneva , told the WHO Executive Board .
Japan supported this stance , with Ambassador Ken Okaniwa telling the forum : “ We should not make a geographical vacuum by creating a situation where a specific region can not join WHO even as an observer ” .
Cong Ze , a Chinese diplomat speaking at the WHO , expressed its “ strong dissatisfaction ” that some countries had raised the issue of Taiwan ’s participation at the technical meeting .
China ’s foreign ministry , in a faxed statement to Reuters , said the case numbers it reported to the WHO for Taiwan all came from Taiwan ’s government .
“ If there are mistakes , this is the relevant authorities in the Taiwan region deliberately reporting mistakes to us , ” it said .
The WHO did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the figures .
Reporting by Ben Blanchard ; Additional reporting by Gabriel Crossley , Beijing and David Stanway in Shanghai ; Stephanie Nebehay in Geneva ; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan and
Frances Kerry

Sterling to gain on hopes for UK-EU trade deal by year-end - Reuters poll .
2020-02-05 08:19:17 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) -
Sterling will be nearly 4 % stronger in a year than it is now , according to a Reuters poll of market strategists , based on expectations that Britain will secure a trade deal with the European Union this year despite its tough initial stance .
FILE PHOTO :
British five pound banknotes are seen in this picture illustration taken November 14 , 2017 .
REUTERS/ Benoit
Tessier / Illustration
On Monday sterling took a pummelling after Prime Minister Boris Johnson set tough terms for the trade talks .
Some of the forecasts in the Reuters poll were gathered before Johnson ’s speech .
Britain left the EU on Friday and Johnson ’s comments on Monday have rekindled fears of a cliff - edge - whereby no trade deal is agreed - at the end of an 11 - month transition period which Johnson has repeatedly said he wo n’t ask to extend .
Foreign exchange strategists in Reuters polls have repeatedly said that leaving without a deal , and so trading on World Trade Organisation rules only , would be rough for the economy and the worst outcome for the pound .
The currency ended January on a high note after the Bank of England surprised many by leaving borrowing costs on hold but fell as much as 1.7 % to $ 1.2984 on Monday .
It was trading around $ 1.30 on Tuesday after better - than - expected construction data .
Median forecasts in the Jan. 31 - Feb. 4 poll of 65 strategists showed the pound would be up at $ 1.31 in a month , $ 1.32 in six months and then $ 1.35 in a year ’s time .
That is still well below the $ 1.50 it was trading at before the June 2016 referendum , when Britons voted by 52 % to 48 % to leave the world ’s largest trading bloc .
With time short to agree even a bare - bones deal , economists in a Reuters poll last month said there was a median 20 % chance of a disorderly departure at the end of the transition period , during which existing agreements apply as if Britain were still an EU member .
BREXIT BOUNCE ?
Johnson ’s emphatic December election victory stoked hopes for a Brexit bounce to the economy and the BoE said on Jan. 30 a recent pick - up in growth had weakened the case for it to lend more monetary support .
“ A bounce in UK economic growth helped by a good - sized fiscal stimulus in Q2 remains our base case , ” said James McCormick , global head of desk strategy at NatWest Markets .
“ We still like buying sterling and the BOE ’s decision to pass on a cut last week ( which was a surprise to us ) has given the sterling trend some renewed momentum . ”
In contrast to the BoE , the U.S. Federal Reserve and European Central Bank eased policy last year .
But the coronavirus outbreak spreading further beyond China ’s borders has raised more global growth risks and is set to keep the U.S. dollar , which has dominated most others in foreign exchange markets for around two years , firmly on its throne well into 2020 .
With the outlook for euro zone growth already lukewarm before the virus outbreak and no more policy changes expected from the ECB , little movement is expected between the pound and the common currency .
[ ECILT / EU ]
Trading around 84.9 pence on Tuesday , in one- , six- and 12 - months time one euro will be worth 85.0p , the poll found .
Polling by Manjul Paul and Sujith Pai ;
Editing by Gareth Jones

Exclusive: Outbreak to hit iPhone output if China extends Foxconn factory halt - source .
2020-02-04 09:53:38 +00:00 .
TAIPEI ( Reuters ) - Foxconn could see a “ big ” production impact and shipments to customers including Apple face disruption if a Chinese factory halt due to the coronavirus outbreak extends into a second week , a person with direct knowledge of the matter said .
FILE PHOTO : CEO Tim Cook presents the new iPhone 11 at an Apple event at their headquarters in Cupertino , California , U.S. September 10 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Stephen Lam / File Photo Taiwan ’s Foxconn ( 2317.TW ) , which makes smartphones for Apple ( AAPL.O ) and other brands , has halted “ almost all ” of its production in China after companies were told to shut until at least Feb. 10 , the source said , adding that an extension of the stoppage could disrupt shipments to clients including Apple .
Taipei - based Foxconn , which is the world ’s largest contract electronics maker , did not immediately respond to a request for comment , while Apple declined to comment .
The source told Reuters on Monday that Foxconn has so far seen a “ fairly small impact ” from the outbreak as it was utilizing factories in countries including Vietnam , India and Mexico to fill the gap , adding that the company will be able to make up for the delay if factories work overtime after the ban .
In Eastern China ’s Suzhou , one of its largest manufacturing hubs , companies have been told to stay shut until at least Feb. 8 and in Shanghai until Feb. 9 .
Factories in the southern manufacturing hub of Dongguan in export - oriented Guangdong province have also been told not to open before Feb. 10 .
The outbreak of coronavirus , which the World Health Organization declared a global health emergency , threatens to disrupt swathes of Chinese manufacturing .
The source said a halt beyond Feb. 10 could disrupt Foxconn ’s shipments , highlighting concerns about production hubs in the southern province of Guangdong and the city of Zhengzhou in Henan province where key iPhone plants are located .
“ What we are worried about is delays for another week or even another month .
The impact would be big , ” the source said .
“ It definitely will have an impact on the Apple production line . ”
“ The tricky question is whether we will be able to resume production ( on Feb. 10) ...
It ’s up to the instructions given by central and provincial governments . ”
The Guangdong Department of Labour and Social Security said in a response to a question from Reuters that no company including Foxconn can resume work before Feb. 9 , with the exception of firms involved in making or providing medical supplies and other daily necessities .
HEALTH CONTROL
Foxconn has asked employees and clients in China ’s Hubei , the epicenter of the outbreak , not to return to factories and told workers to report their health condition to managers on a daily basis , an internal memo reviewed by Reuters shows .
The company also said employees who follow the rules will be paid as usual and those we fail to do so will be “ severely ” punished , although it did not elaborate .
A hotline was set up to encourage employees to report those who had broken the rules , with a monetary award of 200 yuan ( $ 29 ) , the note dated Feb. 1 said .
Morningstar analyst Don Yew sees “ limited ” impact on Foxconn ’s supply chain , saying its four subsidiaries in Hubei only accounted for 1.8 % of the firm ’s overall revenue in 2018 and vendors such as Apple maintain a diversified supply chain .
However , a spread of the coronavirus to major smartphone manufacturing hubs such as Guangdong may lead them to revise financial estimates for companies including Foxconn , Yew said .
Additional reporting by Josh Horwitz and Brenda Goh in Shanghai , and David Kirton in Shenzhen , China ; Editing by Jonathan Weber and
Alexander Smith

AirAsia CEO Fernandes and chairman step aside as Airbus bribery allegations probed .
2020-02-03 14:23:12 +00:00 .
KUALA LUMPUR ( Reuters ) - AirAsia Group ( AIRA.KL ) CEO Tony Fernandes and Chairman Kamarudin Meranun will step aside for at least two months while the airline and authorities investigate allegations Airbus paid a bribe of $ 50 million ( 38.17 million pounds ) to win plane orders from the company .
FILE PHOTO :
A woman walks past an AirAsia counter at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang , Malaysia , July 22 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Lim Huey Teng
A committee comprising the non - executive members of AirAsia ’s board will review the allegations and take any necessary action , Asia ’s biggest budget airline said on Monday .
Fernandes , one of the aviation industry ’s best known executives , and Kamarudin will remain advisers , however , “ in view of the current difficult economic circumstances facing the airline industry ” , the company added .
Senior company executive Tharumalingam Kanagalingam will be the acting CEO , with the changes effective immediately .
In a joint statement , Fernandes and Kamarudin denied any allegations of wrongdoing or misconduct as directors of AirAsia .
“ We would not harm the very companies that we spent our entire lives building up to their present global status , ” they said .
Shares of AirAsia and unit AirAsia X ( AIRX.KL ) fell on Monday after the allegations by Britain ’s Serious Fraud Office ( SFO ) came to light on Friday .
AirAsia stock fell as much as 11 % to 1.27 ringgit , their lowest since May 2016 , while AirAsia X dropped 12 % to an all - time low of 11.5 Malaysian sen .
Malaysia ’s anti - graft agency is also investigating the allegations .
AirAsia has said it never made any purchase decisions that were premised on Airbus ( AIR.PA ) sponsorship , and that it would fully cooperate with the Malaysian Anti - Corruption Commission ( MACC ) .
Malaysia ’s Securities Commission said on Sunday it would also examine whether AirAsia broke securities laws .
The allegations were revealed as part of a record $ 4 billion settlement Airbus agreed with France , Britain and the United States .
Prosecutors said the company had bribed public officials and hidden payments as part of a pattern of worldwide corruption .
“ This agreement and the contents were arrived at without any reference to us ; neither were any explanations sought from us , ” Fernandes and Kamarudin said in their statement .
“ This is in clear violation of fundamental legal principles of fairness . ”
Airbus said at the weekend it would not comment on the Malaysian investigations .
The SFO ’s allegations concern a 2012 sponsorship agreement between the now - defunct Caterham Formula 1 racing team , founded by Fernandes , and Airbus ’s then - parent , EADS .
The SFO said on Friday that between October 2013 and January 2015 , EADS paid $ 50 million to sponsor a sports team which was jointly owned by two people described as AirAsia Executive 1 and Executive 2 .
It said Airbus employees offered an additional $ 55 million , though no payment was made .
Fernandes bought Caterham together with Kamarudin in 2011 .
The SFO said Executives 1 and 2 were “ key decision makers in AirAsia and AirAsia X , and were rewarded in respect of the order of 180 aircraft from Airbus ” .
Analysts said the accusation against AirAsia comes at a particularly bad time as airlines grapple with a slowdown in business because of the fast - spreading coronavirus epidemic that has killed more than 300 people in China and disrupted air travel .
TA Securities downgraded AirAsia Group stock to “ sell ” from “ buy ” .
Reporting by Krishna N. Das ;
Editing by Christopher Cushing and Mark Potter

Australian shares fall to 3-week lows on coronavirus worries; NZ down .
2020-02-03 01:38:46 +00:00 .
* Energy stocks drop to over two - month lows
* Oil Search hits lowest level since Aug 2019
* NZ benchmark index touches over one - month low
By Shreya Mariam Job Feb 3 ( Reuters ) - Australian shares fell to three - week lows on Monday as mounting worries about the global economic impact of the new coronavirus outbreak in China curbed risk appetite and spurred a wider sell - off in the domestic market .
The SP / ASX 200 index dropped 1.5 % , or 106.9 points , to 6,911.10 by 0035 GMT after a 0.1 % gain on Friday .
The focus was on how the Chinese financial markets would fare when they reopen later , after the Lunar New Year holiday was extended to help contain the flu - like virus that has killed as many as 350 people in the central province of Hubei .
Chinese stock futures fell more than 7 % during Jan. 24 to 31 , said Michael McCarthy , chief market strategist at CMC Markets .
The world ’s second - largest economy has taken a heavy hit from the travel curbs and business shutdown due to the epidemic , prompting the central bank to unveil a plan to inject a hefty 1.2 trillion yuan ( $ 173.81 billion ) worth of liquidity into the markets via reverse repo operations on Monday .
“ It is a bit of market panic going on at the moment ( in Australia ) , ” said Michael McCarthy , chief market strategist at CMC Markets .
Selling was broad - based with nine stocks declining for every one stock in the green .
Energy stocks were the worst hit , falling as much as 4 % to a more than two - month low .
A fall in oil prices on Friday and an 11.5 % drop in shares of Oil Search Ltd weighed heavily on the sub - index .
Oil Search dropped to its lowest level since August last year after negotiations on the P’nyang gas project between Papua New Guinea and Exxon Mobil collapsed .
Financials , which account for a large share of the benchmark , dropped 1.8 % .
The “ Big Four ” banks fell in a range of 1.3 % to 2.4 % .
Investors now await the Australian central bank ’s policy rate decision expected on Tuesday , where the cash rate is expected to be held at a record low of 0.75 % .
“ The commentary will be very important , ” McCarthy said .
“ We do expect to see some language around the risks posed by the coronavirus if not flagging some potential responses to those concerns . ”
Material stocks dropped 2.3 % , despite gains in gold miners on safe - haven bets amid sharp volatility in financial markets .
Heavyweight miners BHP Group and Rio Tinto Ltd dropped as much as 3.5 % and 2.7 % , respectively .
Meanwhile , Newcrest Mining and Northern Star Resources rose 1.7 % and 4.5 % , respectively .
New Zealand ’s benchmark SP / NZX 50 index fell to a one - month low and was last down 1.7 % , or 193.22 points , to 11,524.22 .
Shares of A2 Milk Co , which has a large customer base in China , slumped 4.8 % , while those of Fonterra SHareholders ’ Fund slid 1 % .
$ 1 = 6.9040 Chinese yuan
Reporting by Shreya Mariam Job in Bengaluru ; Editing by
Subhranshu Sahu

Major U.S. airlines cancel China flights as government takes action .
2020-01-31 21:04:10 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON / CHICAGO ( Reuters ) -
All three major U.S. airlines announced the cancellation of flights to mainland China on Friday after the U.S. State Department elevated a travel advisory over concerns about the coronavirus .
The trio of carriers , United Airlines Holdings Inc ( UAL.O ) , Delta Air Lines Inc ( DAL.N ) and American Airlines Group Inc ( AAL.O ) , had already moved to reduce flights to China amid a sharp drop in demand as the virus spreads .
Their announcements on Friday came ahead of a call with U.S. officials to discuss the flights .
United and Delta said they would continue to operate outbound flights until Feb. 5 and Feb. 3 , respectively .
United , the largest U.S. carrier to China , said that would “ help ensure our U.S. based employees , as well as customers , have options to return home . ”
American , meanwhile , said it was halting all mainland flights as of Friday through March 27 , but would continue to fly to Hong Kong .
The Trump administration was considering new restrictions but it was not clear if it would move forward yet .
Some airline officials worried that if they did not voluntarily halt flights it would prompt the government to take formal action , potentially complicating any subsequent flight resumption .
The United States told citizens on Thursday not to travel to China due to the epidemic that has infected nearly 10,000 people and been declared a global emergency .
Airline crew had urged carriers stop flights to the country , with American ’s pilots filing a lawsuit on Thursday seeking an immediate halt and the union representing Delta and United flight attendants demanding clear direction from the U.S. government .
United said it was suspending its flights to Beijing , Chengdu and Shanghai until March 28 but would continue to operate one daily flight between San Francisco and Hong Kong .
Delta ’s suspension was set to last through April 30 .
FILE PHOTO :
Delta Airlines jets sit at terminal at Reagan National Airport outside Washington in this August 19 , 2004 file photo .
REUTERS /
Larry Downing / File Photo U.S. airline shares have posted heavy losses this week on concerns of the financial impact of the virus .
.DJUSAR
Other airlines that have stopped their flights to mainland China include Air France KLM SA ( AIRF.PA ) , British Airways ( ICAG.L ) , Germany ’s Lufthansa ( LHAG.DE ) and Virgin Atlantic .
Major Chinese carriers were still operating flights to and from the United States as of Friday .
Reporting by David Shepardson and Tracy Rucinski ; Editing by Nick Zieminski and
Tom Brown

LIVESTOCK-Hogs drop by daily limit to contract lows on big supply, coronavirus fears .
2020-01-30 23:09:02 +00:00 .
CHICAGO , Jan 30 ( Reuters ) - U.S. hog futures sank by their daily trading limit to contract lows on Thursday under pressure from hefty supplies and fears about the spreading coronavirus outbreak .
Cattle futures also hit multi - month lows .
U.S. hog supplies are large after farmers expanded their herds to supply new processing plants .
But traders are now worried the new coronavirus will hurt economic growth and demand in China , the world ’s top pork consumer .
Traders were previously waiting for an increase in Chinese buying since Beijing pledged in an initial trade deal on Jan. 15 to significantly increase purchases of U.S. farm goods .
“ That ’s the perception : that it ’s going to slow down the Chinese economy , ” said Dennis Smith , commodity broker for Archer Financial Services in Chicago .
February lean hog futures fell the 3 - cent limit to 61.300 cents per pound at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange .
The most - active April contract also dropped 3 cents to 65.825 cents .
CME on Friday will temporarily expand the daily limit to 4.5 cents .
April live cattle futures eased 0.025 cent to 120.200 cents per pound at the CME and hit their lowest since Oct. 10 .
March feeder cattle futures reached their lowest since Sept. 23 before ending up 0.675 cent at 135.650 cents per pound .
China needs to import more meat after an outbreak of a fatal pig virus , African swine fever , devastated its herd and pushed Chinese pork prices to record highs .
Weekly U.S. pork export sales to China were relatively small at 1,506 tonnes from Jan. 17 to 23 , according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data .
But weekly shipments to China reached 18,617 tonnes , the most since July 2014 , the data showed .
“ Exports are ripping just like we thought they would , ” Smith said .
U.S. beef export sales to China were 207 tonnes and shipments were 96 tonnes , according to USDA data .
The agency on Friday will issue a separate biannual report on domestic cattle inventories .
( Reporting by Tom Polansek in Chicago ;
Editing by Tom Brown )

Coronavirus test negative for passenger aboard Italian cruise ship .
2020-01-30 20:56:57 +00:00 .
CIVITAVECCHIA , Italy ( Reuters ) - A test carried out on Thursday on a passenger from Macau aboard a cruise ship in Italy proved she did not have the new coronavirus , an Italian health ministry spokesman said .
The Costa Crociere company ’s ship Costa Smeralda docked in Civitavecchia , north of Rome , with about 6,000 people aboard .
The mayor of the town had asked authorities to prevent passengers from disembarking until it had been confirmed the virus was not present .
The 54 - year - old woman , who boarded the ship on Jan. 25 in the port of Savona , had come down with a fever and flu - like symptoms .
Both she and her partner were placed in an isolation unit on the ship , Costa Crociere said in a statement .
The Costa Smeralda had visited Marseilles in France and the Spanish ports of Barcelona and Palma de Mallorca this week before docking on Thursday at Civitavecchia .
Samples were taken to Rome ’s Spallanzani institute , a centre specializing in infectious diseases and viruses that confirmed there was no infection , the health ministry added .
On Thursday , the World Health Organization declared that the coronavirus epidemic in China now constitutes a public health emergency of international concern .
Countries have begun isolating hundreds of citizens evacuated from the locked down Chinese city of Wuhan to stop the spread of the coronavirus , which has killed 170 people .
The passengers on board the Italian cruise ship reacted in different ways to the potential virus danger .
“ There is no tension , they ( my relatives ) have eaten , everything works , they should have been able to leave the ship but they can not , ” Adriano Pavan , the father of a passenger on board with two children , told Reuters .
An Italian cruise ship of Costa Crociere is pictured moored at the Italian port of Civitavecchia after reports of two passengers with suspected cases of coronavirus on board , in Civitavecchia , Italy , January 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Guglielmo Mangiapane Carla Configoni , the mother of a pregnant woman on board , said she had spoken to her daughter who was “ very agitated ” .
“ She was fine until late morning because she did n’t know what was going on .
Then , they heard the news , ” she said .
In the light of the emergency MSC Crociere , another European cruise company , said in a statement that anyone who had visited mainland China in the past 30 days would be denied access to its ships .
Reporting by Antonio Denti , Cristiano Corvino , Crispian Balmer and Angelo Amante ;
Editing by Catherine Evans

UPDATE 1-Avolon says Asian airlines see big fall in bookings, could defer fleet growth .
2020-01-30 15:41:11 +00:00 .
( Adds comments from 6th graph onwards )
By Anshuman Daga SINGAPORE , Jan 30 ( Reuters ) - Airlines in Asia are seeing a big drop in bookings along with forced cancellations because of the coronavirus outbreak in China , the head of aircraft lessor Avolon Holdings Ltd said , adding the impact could last for some months .
The fast - spreading virus has killed 170 people and infected nearly 8,000 , with global airlines suspending or scaling back direct flights to China ’s major cities amid an increase in travel warnings and as demand plummets .
“ There is a significant drop - off in bookings .
Airlines are seeing forced cancellations .
It ’s going to be pretty tough , ” Avolon Chief Executive Domhnal Slattery told Reuters in an interview on Thursday .
“ If you draw the SARS ( Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ) analogy , the impact on the airlines will peak 3 - 4 months from now in terms of absolute lost revenue , ” said Slattery , who leads the world ’s third - biggest operating lessor and has been in the industry for more than 30 years .
With a fleet of 525 planes , about half deployed in Asia Pacific , Dublin - headquartered Avolon counts 154 airlines among its customers .
Slattery said that if the severity of the current virus situation is similar to SARS , airlines will move to a “ cash conservation ” mode and defer or slow down any incremental fleet growth .
“ A lot of low - cost carriers that have ( been ) established in the last 5 - 10 years have very thin balance sheets , not a lot of liquidity .
And they ’re going to be the ones that are most stressed in this scenario , ” he said .
The coronavirus appears to represent the biggest epidemic threat to the airline sector since the SARS outbreak , which at its peak in April 2003 led to a 45 % plunge in passenger demand in Asia .
Slattery said that following previous crises , such as SARS and the September 11 , 2001 attacks , air traffic had managed to recover after an early sharp drop .
He said Avolon had $ 5.7 billion in available cash it could tap into to support airlines with their financing needs for sale and leaseback transactions .
“ I foresee that demand will come based on experience and similar situations in the past . ”
Slattery said the grounding of Boeing ’s 737 MAX planes had helped curtail industry capacity .
He was hopeful of the aircraft returning to service before mid - year .
“ I think they ’ll start to deliver better news over the coming weeks to say , ‘ you know what , actually , it ’s not June , July , it ’s May , June ’ ” .
Nine of Avolon ’s Max planes have been grounded and it has orders for another 139 .
Avolon is majority - owned by Chinese conglomerate HNA ’s Bohai Leasing , while Japan ’s Orix Corp owns 30 % .
( Reporting by Anshuman Daga ;
Editing by Elaine Hardcastle and Jan Harvey )

Thailand coronavirus cases rise to 14, all passengers from China to be screened .
2020-01-28 11:23:43 +00:00 .
BANGKOK ( Reuters ) - Thailand announced plans on Tuesday to screen all arrivals from China for symptoms of the coronavirus and confirmed six more infections among such visitors , taking its tally to 14 , health officials said .
An image is seen on a thermographic device checking the temperatures of tourists before entering a shopping mall in Bangkok , Thailand , January 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Athit Perawongmetha Thai tourist authorities meanwhile said the number of Chinese tourists to Thailand was expected to fall by 2 million to 9 million this year due to the coronavirus oubreak in China .
Thais were also advised to avoid non - essential travel to China , Sukhum Kanchanapimai , the health ministry ’s permanent secretary , told a news conference .
The death toll from the outbreak now stands at 106 , although there have been no fatalities outside China .
Thailand has the second - largest number of cases outside China , though it is far lower than the 4,515 infections in China .
Five of the patients among Thailand ’s new cases , aged between 6 and 70 , came from China ’s Hubei province , and belonged to the same family , health official Tanarak Plipat told reporters .
The sixth was from Chongqing city in southwestern China .
One passenger from among the family of seven travelling together was taken to hospital after showing symptoms on arrival , added Tanarak , the deputy director - general of the department of disease control .
The other four family members were quarantined after showing symptoms following monitoring , he added .
“ Now we will expand screening to all Chinese from China and prepare equipment to screen 100 % , ” Sukhum said .
Thailand had earlier screened passengers only from China ’s central city of Wuhan , the epicentre of the outbreak , its southern city of Guangzhou and northeastern Changchun across five airports , from Suvarnabhumi in Bangkok to those at Chiang Mai , Don Mueng , Phuket and Krabi .
The Tourism Authority of Thailand said it expected the number of Chinese tourists to fall by 2 million to 9 million this year due to the coronavirus oubreak .
Tourism has been hit hard by China ’s ban on all group tours as China is Thailand ’s biggest source of visitors .
Reduced travel from China could result in 50 billion baht ( $ 1.52 billion ) of lost tourism revenue , the tourism ministry estimates .
TAT will propose to the government measures to help the industry , TAT Governor Yuthasak Supasorn told a news conference .
( Corrects to say Chongqing is a city , not a province , in China )
Reporting by Panarat Thepgumpanat and Chayut Setboonsarng ;
Editing by Angus MacSwan

In bid to curb virus, China firms tell staff to work from home even after holidays end .
2020-01-27 09:40:19 +00:00 .
SHANGHAI / BEIJING ( Reuters ) - Chinese corporate giants including Alibaba Group Holding ( BABA.N ) and Tencent Holdings Ltd ( 0700.HK ) said they have asked staff to work from home for one week after an extended Lunar New Year break ends , seeking to limit the spread of a new flu - like virus .
FILE PHOTO :
A man walks past a building of Swiss bank UBS in Shanghai , China May 22 , 2019 .
Picture taken May 22 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Stringer
The government has lengthened the week - long Lunar New Year holiday by three days to Feb. 2 in a bid to contain the virus which has killed 81 .
The total number of confirmed cases on Monday jumped about 30 % to more than 2,700 .
But many big businesses are going one step further , telling employees to work from home until Friday , Feb. 7 and not return to their offices until Monday , Feb. 10 .
Alibaba said the measure applied across all its divisions , including to workers in Hong Kong , Taiwan and Macau as well as in mainland China .
It employs more than 100,000 people worldwide , most of whom are in China .
The Shanghai government also imposed a similar measure , announcing that all companies in the city would not be allowed to start work before Feb. 9 , as did the nearby city of Suzhou , home to a big industrial park for pharmaceutical firms and tech companies .
The decision by the Shanghai government will affect companies such as Tesla Inc ( TSLA.O ) , General Motors ( GM.N ) and Volkswagen ( VOWG_p . DE ) which either own factories or operate them in the city through ventures with local partners .
Tiktok owner Bytedance was among the most stringent , requiring employees who traveled during the holidays to quarantine themselves and work from home for 14 days .
Staff who had not traveled could start working from the office from Feb.10 , though that date could change , according to an internal note seen by Reuters .
Bytedance declined to comment .
Wuhan , a city of 11 million and the epicenter of the outbreak , is already in virtual lockdown and severe limits on movement are in place in several other Chinese cities .
E - commerce firm Pinduoduo , UBS Group AG ( UBSG.S ) and property developer Country Garden ( 2007.HK ) have also advised employees returning from Wuhan or Hubei province to quarantine themselves at home .
Haidilao International Holding ( 6862.HK ) , operator of a popular hotpot restaurant chain , said it would shut stores across China from Sunday to Friday - one of the biggest temporary closures by a nationwide chain to date .
Other brands such as Starbucks Corp ( SBUX.O ) have closed shops in Hubei province .
Walt Disney Co ’s ( DIS.N )
Shanghai Disney Resort said last week it will close until further notice .
In Hong Kong , where the holiday break is shorter , the stock exchange ( 0388.HK ) canceled a Wednesday ceremony for the first trading day of the Lunar New Year , citing the increasing risks of the coronavirus infection .
The decision comes after Hong Kong banned residents of Hubei from entering the territory from Monday .
As companies brace for the virus to hit business , China ’s financial regulators said they were encouraging banks to lower lending rates for sectors heavily affected by the outbreak .
The Chinese - ruled gambling hub of Macau said it would bar anyone who has been in Hubei province within 14 days of their arrival from entering the city ’s casinos .
Reporting by Josh Horwitz in Shanghi and Yingzhi Yang in Beijing ; Additional reporting by Alun John and Clare Jim in Hong Kong and Pei Li , Yilei Sun and Winni Zhou in Beijing ; Writing by Miyoung Kim ;
Editing by Edwina Gibbs

Hong Kong protesters torch planned virus quarantine building .
2020-01-26 14:11:15 +00:00 .
HONG KONG ( Reuters ) -
A group of protesters set alight the lobby of a newly built residential building in Hong Kong on Sunday that authorities planned to use as a quarantine facility for the coronavirus outbreak .
Anti - government protesters set alight the lobby of a newly built residential building that authorities planned to use as a quarantine facility , as public fears about the coronavirus outbreak intensify in Hong Kong , China January 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Tyrone Siu
A Reuters witness saw several masked protesters , clad in black , rush into the public housing block in the Fanling district near to the border with China , and set alight a Molotov cocktail before running out .
Black smoke could be seen pouring out of the building to the sound of fire alarms .
Windows were smashed .
The fire was later put out by firefighters and the damage appeared to be confined to the lobby area .
Hundreds of riot police also moved in , arresting at least one person .
As fears about the virus outbreak intensify , calls have grown for the Hong Kong government to block the financial hub ’s border with mainland China to minimize the risk of infection .
Earlier in the afternoon , hundreds of regular Hong Kong citizens had blocked roads leading to the building with bricks and other debris , to protest plans to convert the building into a quarantine zone as the number of confirmed cases in the city climbed to six .
“ We are dissatisfied with the government selecting this housing estate as a ( quarantine ) separation village as it ’s very close to a residential area and a primary school , ” said a 28 - year - old resident surnamed Tsang .
Hong Kong has been convulsed with protests over the last seven months centered on Hong Kong ’s relationship with mainland China : with some protesters railing against what they see as growing interference from Beijing .
Beijing denies meddling and blames the West for stirring trouble in the former British colony .
The outbreak of the coronavirus from the Chinese city of Wuhan has piled further pressure on embattled Hong Kong authorities , who have so far refused to categorically block the flow of visitors from mainland China across several land border crossings .
Direct train and flight connections to and from Wuhan have , however , been suspended .
Hong Kong authorities had earlier said they would convert “ Fai Ming Estate , an unoccupied public estate in Fanling , into temporary flats for quarantine and observation of close contact persons without symptoms if needed . ”
But after the protest , the government said in a statement it would “ cease the related preparation work in Fai Ming Estate . ”
Health authorities in the afternoon said 107 people were now under quarantine , and there were 77 suspected cases .
The ability of the new coronavirus to spread is strengthening and infections could continue to rise , China ’s National Health Commission said on Sunday , with nearly 2,000 people in China infected and 56 killed by the disease .
Additional reporting by Felix Tam and Aleksander Solum in Hong Kong ;
Writing by James Pomfret ;
Editing by Toby Chopra

UPDATE 2-HK leader declares virus emergency, halts official visits to mainland China .
2020-01-25 11:56:49 +00:00 .
( Adds detail , quotes from expert . )
By Felix Tam and Jessie Pang
HONG KONG , Jan 25 ( Reuters ) - Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam declared a virus emergency on Saturday , announcing measures to limit links with mainland China and prevent the spread of the new coronavirus .
Flights and high speed rail trips between Hong Kong and Wuhan , the epicentre of the outbreak , will be halted .
Schools that are currently on Lunar New Year holidays will remain closed until Feb. 17 and education authorities have asked universities to extend leave for students .
Hong Kong ’s health authorities have confirmed 5 coronavirus cases , all linked to Wuhan , with a further 122 people being treated as suspected of having the disease .
Lam said all official visits to the mainland and official Lunar New Year celebrations would be scrapped immediately .
But she rejected calls for a temporary ban on all arrivals from the mainland and said it would be impractical to shut down all border crossings with the mainland .
Lam also said she had sought assistance from China ’s State Council to ensure there were adequate supplies of masks .
Lam is dealing with the health issue as she faces broader tensions after seven months of sometimes violent anti - government protests .
“ I hereby urge all citizens stay united to fight against the epidemic to protect all Hong Kong people ’s health and safety , ” she said .
The demonstrations have centred on Hong Kong ’s relationship with mainland China : some protesters have railed against growing interference from Beijing while others have expressed concern over greater integration with the mainland .
Beijing denies meddling and blames the West for stirring trouble in the former British colony .
Lam , speaking hours after returning from the World Economic Forum in Davos , insisted Saturday ’s announcement was not delayed due to her trip , saying she had stayed in close touch with officials while in Switzerland .
The first case in Hong Kong of the new coronavirus was confirmed on Wednesday , a 39 - year - old man visiting from Wuhan who crossed by high - speed rail from neighbouring Shenzhen .
The condition of one of the people confirmed with the virus deteriorated on Saturday and the patient was now on a respirator , Hong Kong ’s government funded broadcaster RTHK reported .
Hong Kong earlier deployed temperature screening equipment at the airport and the high - speed rail station .
Air and train passengers are required to fill in health declaration forms at the border while isolation wards have been set - up in hospitals .
Many people are using masks in offices and on public transport , a reflection of the city ’s strong memories of an earlier coronavirus crisis .
Gabriel Leung , the dean of the medical school of Hong Kong University , urged the public to increase its already - substantial wearing of glasses .
“ The short - sighted rate in Hong Kong is the highest in the world .
So , mostly everyone has small protection - glasses , ” he said , urging others to wear glasses too .
“ This is not a perfect measure , but can let you prevent from the droplet transmission to a certain extent , ” Leung said .
Coronaviruses are a family of viruses named because of crown - like spikes on their surfaces .
The viruses cause respiratory illnesses ranging from the common cold to the deadly Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ( SARS ) .
Hong Kong was badly hit by the SARS virus in 2003 and has had many episodes of H5N1 bird flu for more than a decade .
According to WHO figures , 1,755 people in Hong Kong contracted the SARS virus at the time and 299 died .
( Reporting By Felix Tam , Jessie Pang , Scott Murdoch and Marius Zaharia Writing by Greg Torode Editing by Michael Perry and Frances Kerry )

Tech sector pushes the S&P 500 to slight gain .
2020-01-22 22:02:34 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) - Technology shares led the SP 500 marginally higher on Wednesday , as a healthy forecast from IBM helped mitigate worries over the developing coronavirus outbreak .
Traders work on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) in New York , U.S. , January 21 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Brendan McDermid
The SP 500 and the Nasdaq closed barely in the black after approaching , then backing down from record highs the day after virus fears prompted a sell - off .
The Dow closed nominally lower .
“ The market ’s had a big run , that ’s made some investors a bit skittish , cautious , ” said Tim Ghriskey , chief investment strategist at Inverness Counsel in New York .
“ So we ’re not seeing a really strong day . ”
“ Earnings season is always volatile and unpredictable , ” Ghriskey added .
“ Every new earnings report that gets released is another piece of the puzzle . ”
Optimism was boosted by International Business Machines ( IBM.N ) , which posted surprise quarterly revenue growth and forecast higher - than - expected full - year profit .
Its shares advanced 3.4 % .
Chipmakers rose following a strong forecast from Dutch semiconductor equipment maker ASML Holding NV ( ASML.AS ) .
The Philadelphia SE Semiconductor index .SOX gained 0.8 % .
Global precautions have been put in place to curb a viral outbreak from China , which has now claimed 17 lives .
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has convened to determine whether the situation was a global health emergency .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average .DJI fell 9.63 points , or 0.03 % , to 29,186.41 , the SP 500 .SPX gained 0.98 points , or 0.03 % , to 3,321.77 and the Nasdaq Composite .IXIC added 12.96 points , or 0.14 % , to 9,383.77 .
Of the 11 major sectors in the SP 500 , six ended the session in positive territory .
Tech .SPLRCT was up the most , while energy .SPNY was the biggest laggard .
Fourth - quarter earnings season is well under way , with 58 companies in the SP 500 having reported , 67.2 % of which have beaten analyst expectations , according to Refinitiv data .
Analysts now expect fourth - quarter earnings to have contracted by 0.8 % year - on - year .
Streaming pioneer Netflix Inc ( NFLX.O ) acknowledged stiffer competition in the United States , where quarterly growth fell short of analyst estimates .
Its shares closed down 3.6 % .
Shares of Boeing Co ( BA.N ) extended their fall , dropping 1.4 % in the wake of the planemaker ’s announcement that it does not expect approval for its 737 MAX aircraft to return to service until summer .
Tesla Inc ( TSLA.O ) continued its rally , rising 4.1 % and becoming the first publicly listed U.S. automaker to cross the $ 100 billion market valuation mark .
On the economic front , sales of existing homes in December blew past economist estimates to reach a near two - year high .
Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 1.10 - to-1 ratio ; on Nasdaq , a 1.03 - to-1 ratio favored decliners .
The SP 500 posted 109 new 52 - week highs and two new lows ; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 164 new highs and 29 new lows .
Volume on U.S. exchanges was 7.20 billion shares , compared with the 6.80 billion - share average over the last 20 trading days .
Reporting by Stephen Culp ;
editing by Jonathan Oatis

Factbox: WHO international public health emergencies .
2020-01-22 13:33:36 +00:00 .
GENEVA ( Reuters ) - World Health Organisation ( WHO ) experts met on Wednesday to evaluate whether the new coronavirus outbreak constitutes an international emergency .
Only five such emergencies have been declared in the past decade : the H1 virus that caused an influenza pandemic ( 2009 ) , West Africa ’s Ebola outbreak ( 2013 - 2016 ) , polio ( 2014 ) , Zika virus ( 2016 ) , and the ongoing Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( 2019 ) .
The swine flu pandemic of 2009 killed an estimated 284,500 people , about 15 times the number confirmed by laboratory tests at the time , according an international group of scientists .
A 2012 study here in the Lancet Infectious Diseases journal said the toll might have been as many as 579,000 people .
The original count , compiled by the WHO , put the number at 18,500 .
An Ebola outbreak in Sierra Leone , Guinea and Liberia between 2013 to 2016 killed at least 11,300 people , more than all other known Ebola outbreaks combined .
It cost the economies of those three countries an estimated $ 53 billion , according to a 2018 study here in the Journal of Infectious Diseases .
In 2014 , the WHO declared the resurgence of polio to be a public health emergency of international concern .
Pakistan ’s failure to stem the spread of the disease triggered the global measures , which also applied to Syria and Cameroon .
Polio cases in Pakistan rose from 58 in 2012 to 93 in 2013 , more than a fifth of the world total of 417 .
The WHO in 2016 declared Zika a public health emergency here of international concern .
Zika had spread to more than 60 countries and territories since the outbreak was identified in Brazil in 2015 .
By November 2016 , when the WHO declared an end to the Zika emergency , there had been some 2,300 confirmed cases worldwide of babies born with microcephaly , most in Brazil .
Microcephaly is a condition marked by abnormally small heads that can lead to developmental problems .
The WHO ’s Emergency Committee on Ebola declared the outbreak an international emergency in July last year .
By Jan. 14 , there had been 3,406 cases of Ebola , including 2,236 deaths , in the outbreak declared in August 2018 which WHO has said will have cost $ 1 billion by the time it is halted .

JBS gets court nod to reopen Brazil plant closed over COVID-19 outbreak .
2020-05-30 19:59:51 +00:00 .
SAO PAULO , May 30 ( Reuters ) -
A Brazilian labor court on Saturday ruled that JBS SA can reopen its chicken processing plant in the southern state of Santa Catarina , according to a copy of the decision seen by Reuters .
The plant , which employs about 1,500 people and had been closed since May 18 following an outbreak of the novel coronavirus , can process about 135,000 birds per day .
JBS confirmed the favorable injunction issued on May 30 by Labor Judge Paula dos Anjos .
A company spokeswoman said resumption of activities at that plant , located in the small town of Ipumirim , would avoid the culling of thousands of chickens .
Press reports have pegged the number of chickens facing culling at 650,000 .
A separate Brazilian court ruling on May 28 had made it mandatory for JBS to boost protection for workers as it reopened the plant , including mandatory distancing of 1.5 meters ( 4.92 feet ) , among other measures .
When the plant was ordered shut , 86 COVID-19 cases had been confirmed at the facility , labor auditors said .
Claiming “ grave irregularities , ” auditors said they had found evidence that JBS had allegedly failed to suspend workers who had knowingly tested positive for COVID-19 , according to documentation pertaining to the inspection .
JBS also allegedly failed to track those who had come into contact with the sick colleagues inside the plant , while keeping persons with flu - like symptoms on duty even after they had sought on - site medical attention , auditors said .
JBS has consistently denied any wrongdoing , saying it is abiding with government directives and applying strict health protocols to protect the workforce .
( Reporting by Ana Mano ;
Editing by Sandra Maler )

Competitive sport in England gets green light for Monday restart .
2020-05-30 17:26:20 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) -
After a near three - month shutdown , elite competitive sport in England can resume from Monday behind closed doors provided strict conditions are met , the government said on Saturday .
FILE PHOTO :
Soccer Football - Premier League - Manchester City v West Ham United - Etihad Stadium , Manchester , Britain - February 19 , 2020
Manchester City 's Sergio Aguero in action with West Ham United 's Angelo Ogbonna Action Images via Reuters / Carl Recine
The first major live event is expected to be the 2000 Guineas Stakes horse race at Newmarket on June 6 , although racing is set to start at Kempton Park on Tuesday .
Competitive sport was suspended in Britain in March in response to the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 38,000 people in the UK to date .
Guidelines published on Saturday by the Department for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport ( DCMS ) , outlined a lengthy list of criteria that must be met to allow elite athletes and professional sportsmen to resume competition .
“ The wait is over .
Live British sport will shortly be back on in safe and carefully controlled environments , ” Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden said in a statement .
“ This guidance provides the safe framework for sports to resume competitions behind closed doors .
It is now up to individual sports to confirm they can meet these protocols and decide when it ’s right for them to restart . ”
Dowden confirmed that preparations were being finalised for the Premier League and English Football League to return to action in June .
Premier League shareholders this week agreed a return to contact training with a provisional restart date of June 17 , provided safety requirements are in place .
“ The Premier League welcomes the government ’s announcement today , ” an EPL statement said .
“ We have provisionally planned to restart the Premier League on June 17 , but there is still much work to be done to ensure the safety of all involved . ”
DCMS said a “ significant proportion ” of the remaining 92 Premier League matches will be shown on free - to - air platforms .
“ The British sports bounceback has begun , ” it said on Twitter .
While the Premier League could resume on June 17 , other sports are in different positions .
Domestic cricket remains suspended until Aug. 1 , while the Wimbledon tennis tournament has been cancelled for the first time since World War II .
Premiership rugby clubs hope to resume training from June 8 .
The government ’s latest step for the resumption of elite level sport follow its ‘ stage two ’ guidance published on May 25 which allowed elite athletes to resume group training under carefully controlled conditions .
“ This is a significant moment for British sport .
By working with clinicians every step of the way , we ’re creating the safest possible environments for everyone involved , ” Dowden said .
Measures , agreed in conjunction with Public Health England and medical representatives from sports bodies , include players travelling alone to venues , being screened for coronavirus symptoms before entering , and maintaining social distancing where possible , including celebrations .
Dressing room usage will be minimised and only essential physiotherapy allowed while recovery sessions will be held outside .
High - contact areas must be regularly disinfected , while catering must be limited .
The government also announced on Saturday that people in England will be able to exercise outside with up to five others from different households from Monday .
The announcement did not apply to Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland .
Reporting by Martyn Herman ;
Editing by Hugh Lawson and Toby Davis

Little fear, lots of love as Madrid medics do home rounds amid pandemic .
2020-05-29 18:47:54 +00:00 .
MADRID ( Reuters ) -
With air kisses and palms clasped , elderly patients in Madrid greet medics who come to check them at home during the coronavirus pandemic despite the risks involved .
Hand sanitizer is seen in the medical kit of Comunidad de Madrid home care nurse Ana Arenal during a home visit , amid the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Madrid , Spain , May 27 , 2020 .
Picture taken May 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Susana Vera
“ I do n’t know if it ’s right to say it
but I ’ve had little fear , ” primary care nurse Ana Arenal told Reuters after she and a doctor did the rounds in a taxi with plentiful gear to protect both themselves and their patients .
The people they attend are usually virus - free and require regular injections , blood pressure or other checks .
The medics wear masks , visors and gloves in most cases , but have full protective equipment for some patients with symptoms .
“ In order to avoid the risk to patients ( from going out ) , we ’ve done a lot of daily home visits .
We saw a lot of gratitude in them , ” added Arenal alongside doctor Carlos Balsalobre Sanchez as they visited middle - class apartments often adorned with figures of Catholic saints .
“ If we do n’t take care of ourselves , we wo n’t be able to take care of them .
That ’s one of the things they say a lot , ” said Balsalobre Sanchez , with an old - school leather doctor ’s bag .
But it is not all kisses and gratitude for the home care crews .
Many have painful memories from the epidemic that has killed more than 27,000 Spaniards .
“ Seeing in our diaries the little red dot next to a name ... that during the pandemic meant the death of our patients , has been quite hard , ” recalled Arenal .
Balsalobre Sanchez ’s most poignant moment was seeing an elderly couple embrace for the last time before the wife was taken to a hospital , where she later died .
Another nurse , Maria Jesus Santamaria , who has been doing phone check - ups and visits , recalled an elderly woman saying “ goodbye ” by phone and asking her to take care of her husband .
“ Many people have overcome the illness , thank God , but you take that with you , ” Santamaria said .
But her 75 - year - old patient Manuel Sanz Calderon said , after taking his injections , the nurse never shows anything but cheeriness : “ She is loving , kind and I ca n’t say more about her . ”
Santamaria blushes when medics like her are lauded .
“ Heroes have been all of us , those who have stayed at home , us doing our job , ” she said .
Aditional reporting by Guillermo Martinez and Paola Luelmo , Writing by Andrei Khalip ;
Editing by Andrew Cawthorne

Jamaican bobsleigh team push a Mini to keep Olympic dream alive .
2020-05-29 16:44:16 +00:00 .
PETERBOROUGH , England ( Reuters ) -
The Jamaican bobsleigh team is used to training without snow , but the coronavirus lockdown has seen its male athletes resort to pushing a car around the streets of an English city to stay in shape , with an eye on Olympic qualification .
Bobsleigh - Jamaica Bobsleigh team members Shanwayne Stephens and Nimroy Turgott push a Mini Cooper .
They have been pushing the car around the streets of Peterborough as part of their training following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , Peterborough , Britain , May 29 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Paul Childs
Some residents of Peterborough have offered their help to Shanwayne Stephens and Nimroy Turgott as they push a Mini down the road , before realising it is part of a new training regime to work around the closure of gyms in England .
“ We had to come up with our own ways of replicating the sort of pushing we need to do .
So that ’s why we thought : why not go out and push the car ? ”
Stephens , 29 , told Reuters .
“ We do get some funny looks .
We ’ve had people run over , thinking the car ’s broken down , trying to help us bump - start the car .
When we tell them we ’re the Jamaica bobsleigh team , the direction is totally different , and they ’re very excited . ”
The couple said they had been inspired by the 1988 Calgary Winter Olympics men ’s bobsleigh team , immortalised in the 1993 film Cool Runnings .
But they said they aimed to qualify for the Beijing Winter Olympics in 2022 and then outperform the 1988 team , who did not officially finish the four - man bob competition after crashing .
“ Those guys set a legacy , and a movie came out of it .
For me personally , I want to surpass that level , and even go beyond that , ” Turgott , 27 , said .
Turgott , who normally lives in Jamaica , has been staying with Stephens since January , and the pair had always planned to do summer training in Britain , albeit in gyms rather than on roads .
“ If you ’re able to do the same sort of training without the same equipment , then you should be able to achieve more with the right equipment , ” he said .
The pair are focused on qualifying for Beijing 2022 .
While the woman ’s team competed for the first time in 2018 in Pyeongchang , South Korea , the men ’s team failed to qualify .
“ The last Olympics , we missed it by one slot .
And now we are using that experience as our motivation moving forward , ” Turgott said .
Writing by Alistair Smout ;
editing by Stephen Addison

Colombia ELN rebels would back U.N. ceasefire, urge government to join .
2020-05-29 14:54:25 +00:00 .
BOGOTA ( Reuters ) - Colombian rebel group the National Liberation Army ( ELN ) would be willing to participate in a global three - month ceasefire being discussed at the United Nations to contain the spread of coronavirus , the head of its negotiating team said .
FILE PHOTO :
Pablo Beltran , representative of the delegation of the National Liberation Army ( ELN ) , looks on during a news conference in Havana , Cuba August 2 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Tomas Bravo / File Photo
The group - whose nascent Cuba peace talks with the government were put on ice after a rebel bombing killed 22 police cadets last year - hopes President Ivan Duque would also back the ceasefire , Pablo Beltran told Reuters .
On March 23 , U.N. chief Antonio Guterres called for a ceasefire in global conflicts so the world can focus on the pandemic .
The U.N. Security Council appears to back that call , but the 15 - member body has failed to agree a resolution due to a stand - off by China and the United States over whether to mention the World Health Organization .
The ELN , considered a terrorist group by the United States and European Union , held a unilateral ceasefire during April .
“ We are informed of that process .
We ’re studying it and of course we would look favorably on that happening and that this time the Colombian government does implement it , ” Beltran said in a video - call interview .
“ Of course , our leadership in Colombia would responsibly take up the call , ” he said .
Colombia , which has more than 25,000 confirmed cases of coronavirus and more than 800 deaths , has been gradually loosening a nationwide lockdown now set to last until July 1 .
No ELN member has been infected , Beltran said .
Duque , whose party opposed a 2016 peace deal with the FARC guerrillas , has demanded the ELN hold a unilateral ceasefire , halt kidnappings , free hostages and abandon the use of landmines and the forced recruitment of minors for talks to resume .
The ELN is willing to make gestures like freeing hostages , Beltran said , but other efforts to deescalate conflict must be agreed at talks .
The group ’s “ willingness to find a political solution to the conflict ” remains , he said .
Duque ’s government has requested Cuba extradite Beltran and other negotiators on charges related to the police academy bombing in January 2019 , but the ELN says if talks do not restart the team should be allowed to return to guerrilla areas in Colombia under the original terms of the negotiations .
“ It ’s a critical point , ” Beltran said .
“ We have told them our delegation is here , send your delegates .
If you do n’t , return this delegation to Colombia . ”
The breakdown of ELN negotiations with previous governments has been put down to the group ’s devolved command structure and disagreements within its ranks .
Reporting by Luis Jaime Acosta in Bogota , additional reporting by Michelle Nichols in New York ; Writing by Julia Symmes Cobb ;
Editing by Nick Zieminski

Inside a COVID-19 hospital in India, doctors see no end in sight .
2020-05-29 06:53:48 +00:00 .
( This May 28 story , adds dropped word “ Smart ” in paragraph 4 and corrects designation in paragraph 12 to nurse , not doctor )
Mortuary workers prepare to transport the body of a person who died from the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , at Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital in New Delhi , India , May 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Danish Siddiqui
By Danish Siddiqui and Zeba Siddiqui NEW DELHI ( Reuters )
-
It was barely noon on Thursday when the metal doors of the mortuary at a hospital in south New Delhi swung open and staff in white coveralls rolled out a stretcher .
Mourning relatives looked on , as a body bag was loaded into an ambulance and taken away to a cemetery .
It was yet another casualty from the coronavirus pandemic that has killed over 4,500 people and infected more than 150,000 across India .
While infection rates from the virus have begun to fall in many countries , in India they are still rising sharply , and epidemiologists warn peak is yet to come .
Concerns are rising about how the country of 1.3 billion , with one of the world ’s most overburdened healthcare systems , will handle the surge with roughly 6,000 new infections being detected daily this week .
On Thursday , Reuters was given exclusive access inside Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital - currently the largest such private COVID-19 treatment site in New Delhi - where some 200 patients are being treated for the disease caused by the new coronavirus .
While India is easing a more than two - month long nationwide lockdown that was aimed at reining in the spread of the disease , the battle against the virus rages within its strained hospital system .
“ We are getting more and more people daily both in numbers and in the severity of disease , ” said Arun Dewan , the director of the hospital ’s critical care section .
“ We ’re not seeing any end . ”
Around him , the eerie calm within the hospital was broken only by the sound of machines beeping and patients coughing - most of whom were separated only by white curtains .
Staff in heavy protective gear move around softly , speaking in murmurs .
Until a few months ago the cries of babies would often fill this section of the hospital , which was meant for neonatal care .
But with the number of cases surging , Max designated the entire building for COVID-19 patients .
Now , posters of Winnie the Pooh and other cartoon characters meant to soothe children , beam down upon patients struggling to beat a deadly virus .
It is the first time in his 35 - year - career that Dewan is battling a pandemic of this scale , he said , and while each day has been as struggle , he fears the worst is yet to come .
“ Manpower will be the biggest challenge .
We have reached the limit , ” he said , adding even as the toll rises , the wait list of patients is growing fast .
But there are small victories that keep the staff going .
For Steena , a nurse working in the ICU who only gave her first name , one such moment was when a 70 - year - old woman brought in dire condition recovered in recent weeks .
“ After seven or eight days , she was taken off a ventilator , and tested negative , ” she said , sounding hopeful , before quickly turning to attend to yet another patient .
Reporting by Danish Siddiqui and Zeba Siddiqui ; Editing by Euan Rocha and
Lisa Shumaker

Go-go bars gone as coronavirus hits Bangkok's sex district .
2020-05-29 06:23:02 +00:00 .
BANGKOK ( Reuters ) -
The black leather party masks that performers May and Som wear for their fetish shows in Bangkok are definitely not the sort to stop the coronavirus .
An 18 + sign is seen inside the Patpong museum at the nightlife and sex trade district , during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Bangkok , Thailand , May 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Athit Perawongmetha Behind closed doors , they practise for the day when health restrictions are lifted and tourists return , but they have no idea when and worry that the city ’s infamous Patpong red - light district could be very different by then .
“ This kind of place will be the last to reopen , ” said May 31 .
Like Som , she goes only by her Thai nickname .
“ Even when it does reopen , customers will be worried about their safety , ” she said at the BarBar club on Patpong ’s Soi 2 street .
BarBar and other clubs such as “ Bada Bing ” and “ Fresh Boys ” are shuttered and the nights are largely silent .
Thailand shut bars and clubs in mid - March as coronavirus cases surged .
It halted international passenger flights , stopping the tourism that had made Bangkok the world ’s most visited city for four years .
Patpong went dark .
But residents say the decline had already begun for a red - light district that flourished in the 1970s as a rest stop for U.S. forces in Indochina .
“ This COVID-19 is an accelerant of change , ” said Michael Ernst , an Austrian 25 - year veteran of the district and former bar owner who opened the Patpong Museum weeks before the new coronavirus reached Thailand .
“ The go - go bar and its very one - dimensional concept of a stage and ladies dancing on it with a number .
I think that ’s already over , they just do n’t know that yet . ”
SHIFT
The number of go - go bars in Patpong district has waned in recent years as business has moved to other parts of Bangkok or online and as sex tourism has become a smaller part of the overall tourism industry for Thailand .
For decades , tourism figures were skewed towards men .
But the growing importance of Chinese visitors in particular changed that .
In 2018 , more than 53 percent of tourists were women .
Nonetheless , Patpong ’s nightlife district employed thousands of people , mostly young women .
Most are now among the 2 million Thais the state planning agency believes may be made unemployed this year because of the impact of the virus .
BarBar is still paying some workers .
But the manager of at least one go - go bar on Soi 2 just abandoned the lease .
Patpong had never known it as bad , said 70 - year - old Pratoomporn Somritsuk , who for 35 years has run the Old Other Office drinking den .
“ A lot of ladies here working in nightlife are mostly from a poor family or upcountry , ” she said .
“ They have no chance to go work in a company . ”
The lockdown has meant the whole sex industry has collapsed .
Online escort service Smooci said activity in Bangkok fell to 10 percent in April .
Thailand has now begun to lift some movement restrictions with infections at over 3,000 and deaths nearly 60 , but neither rising rapidly .
There is talk of tourism resuming .
But a health ministry spokesman said that nightlife venues would be among the last to reopen .
“ In the new normal , Patpong will have to adapt a lot .
It may end up looking different , but this change will be for the better , ” Rungruang Kitpati said .
Social distancing and the sex industry are hard to make compatible , however .
“ I can provide alcohol gel or temperature checks , ” said 38 - year - old Jittra Nawamawat , one of BarBar ’s founders .
“ But staying one metre apart is impossible . ”
Additional reporting by Panarat Thepgumpanat and Chayut Setboonsarng ;
Editing by Kay Johnson and Raju Gopalakrishnan

France to open bars and beaches in second phase of easing lockdown .
2020-05-29 03:38:48 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) - France will allow restaurants , bars and cafes to reopen from June 2 , though with more restrictions in Paris than elsewhere , Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said on Thursday as he announced the next phase in easing the country ’s coronavirus lockdown .
The government is also lifting a nationwide 100 km ( 60 - mile ) travel restriction and will reopen beaches and parks from next week as it seeks to resuscitate the euro zone ’s second biggest economy ahead of the summer tourism season .
“ Freedom will become the rule , bans the exception , ” Philippe said in a televised address .
More than 28,600 people have died of COVID-19 in France .
On Thursday the death toll rose by less than 100 for the eighth day running .
The spread of the virus is slowing quicker than hoped for and Paris is no longer deemed a “ red zone ” coronavirus hot spot , Philippe said .
But danger still lurked and there was no room for complacency , he added .
The greater Paris region is now an “ orange ” zone , meaning it is not as virus - free as almost all other regions designated “ green ” , and the easing of restrictions will be more cautious .
Across the country , restaurants , cafes and bars will have to ensure a minimum one - metre ( three - foot ) gap between tables and all staff must wear face masks .
In “ orange ” zones they will only be permitted to open outdoor seating areas .
Paris bistro owner Alain Fontaine watched Philippe ’s address surrounded by empty tables and upturned chairs .
Without an outdoor terrace , his kitchen will remain closed .
A restaurant employee carries a chair in Nice before the announcement by the French government of more easing lockdown measures following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in France , May 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Eric Gaillard “ Those who do n’t have a terrace are the fall guys , ” he said .
“ We ’re exhausted by an invisible enemy that has broken our morale . ”
SAVING SUMMER
The rebound of France ’s hospitality sector will depend in part on how quickly tourists return .
Nearly 90 million foreign tourists visited France in 2018 , making it the most visited country in the world .
Philippe said he was in favour of removing border restrictions within Europe ’s Schengen area without quarantine rules from June 15 .
France and its European neighbours have been progressively easing unprecedented restrictions on public life in the past month , desperate to revive battered economies but mindful of unleashing a second wave of infections .
A ban on gatherings in public places of more than 10 people remains in place for now , and major sporting events will also be suspended until at least June 21 , Philippe said .
Cinemas will be allowed to open from June 22 unless the spread of the virus quickens once again .
Health Minister Olivier Veran said the virus ’ reproduction rate , known as the “ R ” rate , is below 1 across almost the whole country , meaning that on average each infected person is infecting less than one person and so the epidemic is regressing .
A contact - tracing app , allowing health authorities to identify people who have been exposed to a COVID-19 carrier , will go live on June 2 , Philippe said .
Reporting by Sudip Kar - Gupta , Michel Rose , Matthieu Protard , Marine Pennetier Geert De Clercq and Antony Paone ; Writing by Richard Lough ; Editing by William Maclean , Frances Kerry and Tom Brown

Mexican president hits the road again under pall of coronavirus deaths .
2020-05-28 22:00:46 +00:00 .
MEXICO CITY ( Reuters ) - President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said on Thursday he would restart his tours of Mexico , gambling on his ability to control the narrative that the country is bouncing back from the coronavirus outbreak even as death tolls and infections hit record highs .
FILE PHOTO :
Mexico 's President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador holds a news conference at the National Palace in Mexico City , Mexico , March 17 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Henry Romero / File Photo Five out of every six official coronavirus deaths in Mexico have occurred since Lopez Obrador declared the country had “ tamed ” the pandemic just over a month ago .
“ I ’ve taken the decision to go because we need to restart our public life and move toward the new normality , with all the precautions , ” he told a regular news briefing , apparently opting to forgo a review of the situation he had suggested was due later on Thursday .
The decision carries risks for the president , with the jury out on whether Mexico has the pandemic under control .
It has carried out relatively few tests to map its progress .
Half of Mexico ’s 8,597 official deaths from the virus were registered in the past two weeks , and well over 80 % since Lopez Obrador first said on April 26 the scourge had been tamed .
Lopez Obrador shocked many Mexicans by initially displaying a carefree attitude , encouraging people to hug and keep going out even as his officials were urging people to practice social distancing .
He toured Mexico until the start of April , more than two weeks after the Education Ministry said it would begin closing schools .
The president argued he was trying to lift Mexico ’s spirits , but his ratings suffered until he clawed back some lost ground with calls to put safety first , pollsters said .
POLL BUMP FADING But a daily tracking poll by Consulta Mitofsky shows that the bump in approval for Lopez Obrador has faded since fatalities accelerated just as Mexico began reopening the economy last week under pressure from top trade partner the United States .
On Wednesday , Mexico reported a record number of new daily infections , 3,463 .
On Tuesday it registered 501 deaths from the coronavirus , the highest in a single day .
A survey published Monday by polling firm Buendia Laredo showed 64 % of respondents felt Mexico ’s top priority should be staying at home to combat the virus , compared with 33 % who said it should be restarting the economy .
Critics of the government ’s response say Mexico is going into the restart blind because of a lack of testing data .
Without widespread testing , the government can not accurately forecast when the virus will peak , said Jose Narro , Mexico ’s health minister from 2016 to 2018 .
“ It ’s not possible .
That ’s why there have been problems ; that ’s why they ’ve given us dates and more dates , ” he said .
The Mexican government said by Wednesday it had tested 244,858 people in total , or about 1.9 in every 1,000 inhabitants , based on World Bank population estimates .
That same day , the United States reported it had concluded 15,766,114 tests , or about 48.3 per 1,000 people .
Mexico ’s Health Ministry forecast the virus would peak around May 6 , before moving back the target .
On Tuesday , deputy health minister Hugo Lopez - Gatell said transmissions should start easing in Mexico City , the main hotspot , next week .
Reporting by Dave Graham ; Additional reporting by Raul Cortes ; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and
Leslie Adler

LATAM's bankruptcy filing to delay its Brazil bailout to at least July: sources .
2020-05-28 20:44:04 +00:00 .
RIO DE JANEIRO ( Reuters ) - LATAM Airlines Group ’s ( LTM.SN ) U.S. bankruptcy filing this week will delay its potential bailout in Brazil to at least July and also push back aid to its rivals at least through the end of June , two sources said on Thursday .
FILE PHOTO :
Latam Airlines employees walk at the company 's check - in hall at Guarulhos International airport as air traffic is affected by the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Guarulhos , near Sao Paulo , Brazil , May 19
, 2020.REUTERS / Amanda Perobelli / File Photo
The delays will add further strain to Brazil ’s airlines , which were already in weak shape before the pandemic .
Rivals Azul SA ( AZUL.N ) and Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA ( GOLL4.SA ) are also negotiating bailouts .
“ The bailout will happen ; what could happen is that it may be staggered due to LATAM ’s situation , ” said one source .
Neither LATAM nor Brazil ’s state development bank , BNDES , which is coordinating the bailout , had an immediate comment .
LATAM ’s bankruptcy filing this week has caused private banks to worry about the viability of Brazil ’s airlines after the pandemic , the sources said .
LATAM ’s Brazil subsidiary is not part of the U.S. bankruptcy , although executives acknowledge it is possible it might also go through a court restructuring .
Government and private banks are also worried layoffs will be unavoidable , which could have negative political implications , the sources said .
LATAM does not dispute it will lay off workers .
LATAM ’s Brazil CEO , Jerome Cadier , told Reuters this week the company will undergo downsizing and that layoffs are not prohibited under the government ’s current draft of bailout conditions .
He added that if layoffs were banned , the rescue program would have to be much bigger .
Currently , the bailout is valued at 6 billion reais .
LATAM ’s bankruptcy has also raised questions about the collateral on any bailout loans .
One source said the Brazilian government is still figuring out how best to lend to LATAM considering its parent company is in bankruptcy protection .
Usually the development bank asks for collateral from parent companies .
“ What we would want is for that collateral to have priority over the rest of the company ’s debts , ” the source said .
Reporting by Rodrigo Viga in Rio de Janeiro ;
Editing by Matthew Lewis

Feline good: French cat survives coronavirus infection .
2020-05-28 14:01:36 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) - Papille purrs contentedly as her owner rubs the back of her head , her coat glossy and her eyes a piercing green - back to her old affection - seeking self after recovering from COVID-19 .
Brian , 24 year - old , suspected to have been infected by the SARS - CoV-2 poses in his garden with Papille , his 9 year - old cat who recovered after being tested positive for the virus amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Athis - Mons , near Paris , France , May 27 , 2020 .
Picture taken May 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Christian Hartmann
The nine - year - old cat is the first known case of a pet being infected by the coronavirus in France .
There have only been a handful of other known cases globally .
The likely source of infection : her owners , themselves COVID-19 sufferers .
“ We did n’t know what was wrong with her , ” said Papille ’s owner Brian .
He asked Reuters not reveal his surname after the family received hate messages on social media following the cat ’s illness .
“ Mum found it strange the she was showing the same symptoms as a human : fatigue , a cough and bouts of lethargy .
We said to ourselves , ‘ perhaps it ’s COVID-19 .
Unlikely , but perhaps ’ . ”
Their intuition turned out to be correct .
Brian , 24 , first showed COVID-19 symptoms in late March .
The petrochemical plant employee was signed off work and self - isolated at home where he lives with his parents .
Several days later his mother Florence had a high fever and felt drained .
Her test returned positive .
As Florence recovered in bed , Papille would snuggle up to her , Brian said .
Then Papille too fell ill .
“ She could n’t stand , she would n’t react when we called her .
She ’d barely lift her head , ” said Brian .
“ It was us who transmitted the virus . ”
Papille was tested at a leading national vet school on the southeastern edge of Paris .
“ Human to animal transmission is not something that is impossible , but it is very rare , said Renaud Tissier , science director at the Alfort National Vet School .
We have no cases of humans being infected by pets . ”
Reporting by Lucien Libert ;
Writing by Richard Lough

Alrosa sees May diamond sales at tens of millions of dollars .
2020-05-28 13:01:17 +00:00 .
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) - Russian diamond producer Alrosa expects its sales for May to total tens of million dollars , down sharply from May 2019 but up from April 2020 , when its diamonds sales were worth $ 16 million , its chief executive told Reuters .
The Alrosa logo is seen at the polishing affiliate of the Russian diamond producer in Moscow , Russia February 12 , 2018 .
Picture taken February 12 , 2018 .
REUTERS / Sergei Karpukhin / Files
The new coronavirus outbreak has largely spared employees of Alrosa ’s main production assets in Russia so far , but April sales by the world ’s largest producer of rough diamonds plunged 95 % due to a demand slump .
“ We are ready for this , ” Sergei Ivanov , CEO of the state - controlled Alrosa said .
“ We do not rule out that sales will also remain quite low in the summer compared with a year ago . ”
Alrosa sold diamonds for $ 266 million in May 2019 .
He said he was willing to be flexible over volumes and pricing as this would ensure the market recovered more quickly .
Global demand for diamonds may improve in August - September as quarantine measures are eased , Ivanov said , adding the company ’s balance sheet was robust with more than in $ 1 billion of accumulated cash and its equivalents .
But Alrosa is considering a new loan or debt refinancing later in 2020 as it will need to repay $ 513 million of debt , mainly to its Eurobond holders .
“ We understand that our financial condition allows us to come through this year - until demand becomes normal - without serious problems , ” the CEO said .
Ivanov also said Alrosa ’s 2021 production was likely to be lower than its 2020 output plan of 28 - 31 million carats .
“ We understand that the market will be recovering for months and that it makes no sense for us to build up our already big stockpile , ” Ivanov said .
Alrosa , which has a stockpile of more than 23 million carats , will retain its 30 % global market share as its main peer Anglo American unit De Beers and other producers are reducing output too , Ivanov said .
Reporting by Polina Devitt ;
editing by Barbara Lewis

Europe cheers super-sized stimulus plan, -China tensions simmer .
2020-05-28 09:14:20 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - European shares rose for the fourth straight session on Thursday and the euro perched at a two - month high , as businesses returning to work and a 750 billion euro EU stimulus plan outweighed rising U.S.-China tensions .
FILE PHOTO :
People walk past the London Stock Exchange Group offices in the City of London , Britain , December 29 , 2017 .
REUTERS /
Toby Melville Asian markets had been subdued overnight after U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had warned Hong Kong no longer warranted special treatment under U.S. law , but there was no stopping Europe .
Traders diving back into the markets after Wednesday ’s EU plan to prop up the bloc ’s coronavirus - hit economies pushed the region - wide STOXX 600 index up 1 % to its highest since early March .
The euro enjoyed the view at $ 1.1016 , having risen to a two - month high .
It also held at the near three - month high it had hit versus the neighbouring Swiss franc the previous day , while the dollar was largely quiet .
Euro zone bond yields were relatively stable too , with Italian borrowing costs - a key European confidence indicator - holding near eight - week lows and safe - haven German Bunds seeing another small sell - off .
“ With the release now of the European Commission ’s plan for COVID recovery , we see there being room for further positivity in Eurozone risk assets , even while the global sentiment is buffeted by China - related tensions , ” Mizuho analysts told clients .
“ This feeds directly into our expectations for European risk assets to outperform , which will be further helped by a likely expansion of ECB QE next week . ”
Overnight , MSCI ’s broadest index of Asia - Pacific shares outside Japan had ended flat , having been in positive territory earlier in the day .
Shares in Hong Kong skidded as much 1.75 % before ending down a 0.7 % as Chinese shares managed to close positive .
[ .SS ] .
Japan ’s Nikkei had jumped 2.3 % though U.S. stock futures lost momentum in Europe to trade only 0.1 % higher .
The biggest risk to equities now looks to be the Sino - U.S. relationship , which is likely to worsen after Pompeo had said on Wednesday that China ’s plan to impose new security laws in Hong Kong were “ only the latest in a series of actions that fundamentally undermine ” the city ’s autonomy .
“ All eyes remain on the U.S.-China relationship , ” said Chris Weston , the head of research at Pepperstone , a currency broker .
“ This is a risk for markets ...
One questions if the equity markets are too complacent here . ”
A punitive U.S. response to China on the issue of Hong Kong could result in a tit - for - tat reaction from Beijing , further straining ties between the world ’s two biggest economies and hobbling global growth .
President Donald Trump has said he will announce a response to China ’s policies towards Hong Kong later this week .
Yields on 10 - year U.S. Treasuries rose slightly to 0.6966 % .
Although they are up from an all - time low of 0.4980 % struck in March , they are still a whopping 120 basis points below highs seen in January .
China ’s yuan meanwhile was near a record low of 7.1966 per dollar in international markets due to uncertainty over Hong Kong .
In ‘ onshore ’ trade too , it was nearly at its weakest since the height of the U.S.-China trade war last September .
Commodity markets groaned .
U.S. crude futures fell 3.2 % to $ 31.76 a barrel , while Brent crude fell 1.73 % to $ 34.14 per barrel as investors fretted about Trump ’s response to China .
Additional reporting by Stanley White in Tokyo and Yoruk Bahceli in London ;
Editing by Nick Macfie

Bid to extend U.S. surveillance tools stalls after Trump threatens veto .
2020-05-28 03:49:30 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -
An effort to extend parts of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ( FISA ) stalled in the U.S. Congress on Wednesday , after President Donald Trump promised to veto it and Republicans withdrew their support .
U.S. President Donald Trump deplanes from Air Force One as he returns to Washington after travel to the Kennedy Space Center in Florida at Joint Base Andrews , Maryland , U.S. , May 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Jonathan Ernst
The House of Representatives ’ Democratic leaders said late on Wednesday a vote on renewing three government surveillance rules that expired in March would not take place as expected .
There was no word on when a vote might be rescheduled .
Trump threatened a veto on Twitter earlier on Wednesday , posting : “ If the FISA Bill is passed tonight on the House floor , I will quickly VETO it . ”
After the tweet , none of Trump ’s fellow Republicans in the House backed a procedural measure related to the bill .
Some of the 183 Republican “ no ” votes came from lawmakers who previously supported it .
There were “ no ” yes votes from Republicans .
Fourteen did not vote .
With liberal Democratic privacy hawks also opposing the legislation , it was not clear that it could pass .
Congress has never overridden a Trump veto .
U.S. security officials say the FISA provisions are essential tools for combating extremism and catching foreign spies .
Privacy hawks say they do too little to protect Americans ’ data .
Attorney General William Barr wrote an earlier version of the bill that passed the Democratic - controlled House - but not the Senate - with bipartisan support just before lawmakers left Washington as the coronavirus pandemic spread .
Trump recently turned against FISA , charging on Twitter that former Democratic President Barack Obama ’s administration improperly used it for surveillance of his campaign aides in 2016 .
The rules that would be renewed until December 2023 cover the FISA court ’s approval of warrants for business records , allow surveillance without establishing that a subject is acting on behalf of an extremist group , and allow continued eavesdropping on a subject who has changed cellular telephone providers .
Reporting by Patricia Zengerle ;
Editing by Tom Hogue

Putin says worst-case coronavirus scenario in Moscow averted as lockdown unwinds .
2020-05-27 18:33:19 +00:00 .
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) - President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that Moscow , the epicentre of Russia ’s coronavirus outbreak , had succeeded in preventing what he called worst - case scenarios as the city announced it would ease tough lockdown measures within days .
Russian President Vladimir Putin takes part in a video conference call with Mayor of Moscow Sergei Sobyanin , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , at the Novo - Ogaryovo state residence outside Moscow , Russia May 27 , 2020 .
Sputnik / Alexei Nikolsky / Kremlin via REUTERS
Speaking to Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin , an ally , by video conference , Putin said it was obvious the situation in the city of 12.7 million people had stabilised thanks to steps taken by the authorities .
It was now time for Moscow to provide medical help to regions where the coronavirus remained rampant , said Putin , something Sobyanin said would be organised immediately .
“ The situation in Moscow , like in general across the country , is really stabilising ...
The number of confirmed coronavirus infections in the capital has halved ...
Significantly more people are being discharged from Moscow hospitals than being admitted , ” said Putin .
“ Fortunately it ’s obvious that it was possible to avoid ( worst - case ) scenarios . ”
Sobyanin told Putin he intended to loosen the capital ’s lockdown from June 1 .
He later published details of how he would do that , saying he would trial the looser regime for two weeks from Monday before deciding on further steps .
Muscovites will be allowed to go out for walks three times a week in masks and to do early morning outdoor physical exercise .
Non - food shops can also reopen along with certain services , said Sobyanin .
He left a system of digital passes for people wanting to use public or private transport in place .
Russian authorities earlier on Wednesday reported 8,338 new coronavirus infections , pushing the overall case tally up to 370,680 , the third highest in the world .
The total official death toll stands at 3,968 .
Sobyanin said the overnight increase in coronavirus cases in Moscow had fallen to a low of 2,140 .
Previously , he said , daily infection increases were running at over 6,000 every day .
He also said that the number of seriously ill people in the Russian capital being hospitalised and those with coronavirus - related pneumonia had fallen by 40 percent since May 12 .
Additional reporting by Gleb Stolyarov and Anastasia Teterevleva ;
Editing by Janet Lawrence

Michelin-starred takeout: French chef Guy Savoy turns to lockdown deliveries .
2020-05-27 18:14:35 +00:00 .
Bottles of disinfectant and hydroalcoholic solution are seen in the kitchen at Michelin - starred restaurant Le Chiberta in Paris before the announcement by the French government of more easing lockdown measures to allow the reopening of restaurants as soon as possible following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in France , May 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Gonzalo Fuentes PARIS ( Reuters ) -
It ’s not your typical takeout menu , even in Paris : raw trout in a sour cream followed by quail confit with a cauliflower and almond sauce .
Then again , in normal times three - star Michelin chef Guy Savoy does n’t do delivery .
One of the world ’s most celebrated chefs , Savoy opened one of his four Paris restaurants , Le Chiberta near the Arc de Triomphe , for takeaway after France partially relaxed some coronavirus lockdown restrictions earlier this month .
“ We wanted to do this to show people that we ’re still here , still here to help them keep up their spirits , ” said Gilles Chesneau , executive chef at Savoy ’s restaurants .
On the abbreviated three - course menu are simplified takes on some of Savoy ’s signature dishes .
While the set menu ’s fixed price of 55 euros may for some be eye - wateringly expensive compared to regular takeout fare , it is for others an affordable way to discover the culinary touch of a masterchef .
Le Chiberta is delivering about 35 meals a day , Chesneau said , and will continue doing so even after the 70 - cover restaurant reopens to compensate for the reduced seating .
“ It ’s tough for restaurants right now , ” said legal secretary Pauline Bakomera as she bought one of Savoy ’s meals for a client .
France tiptoed out of lockdown on May 11 , allowing schools to slowly reopen and shops and manufacturing plants to resume operations .
But it kept restaurants , cafes and bars closed .
Prime Minister Edouard Philippe will announce measures to further unwind the lockdown on Thursday .
Restaurants across the country on Wednesday dressed empty tables in an appeal to government to revive the struggling industry .
“ We ’ve got to get things up and running , ” said Chesneau .
“ Otherwise it ’s not the virus that will kill us but the economy . ”
Reporting by Michaela Cabrera ; Writing by Richard Lough ;
Editing by Janet Lawrence

Disney plans to reopen Walt Disney World starting on July 11 .
2020-05-27 17:59:46 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Walt Disney Co ( DIS.N ) plans to reopen the world ’s largest theme park , Walt Disney World , in phases beginning on July 11 , if the governor of Florida approves .
FILE PHOTO :
Disney 's Magic Kingdom theme park is seen empty of visitors after it closed in an effort to combat the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in an aerial view in Orlando , Florida , U.S. March 16 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Gregg Newton Disney wants to reopen Magic Kingdom and Animal Kingdom on July 11 and Epcot and Hollywood Studios on July 15 , according to Jim MacPhee , senior vice president of operations for the Walt Disney World Resort , who presented plans during a webcast meeting .
The successful reopening of its parks is a signal event for Disney and the rest of the world as governments and companies strategize how to move out of lockdown while the novel coranavirus is still a threat .
After MacPhee ’s presentation , an Orange County task force OK’d the plan , sending it to Florida Governor Ron DeSantis for final approval .
When the Disney parks reopen , guests and employees will be required to wear masks and undergo temperature checks .
The resort will suspend parades , fireworks displays and other activities that create crowds .
It will “ enable and encourage ” contactless payment systems , and expand its existing mobile order systems in restaurants .
Disney plans to restrict the number of guests , who will be required to reserve their park passes ahead of time .
Park guests will be greeted by signs such as “ HELP US PROTECT THE MAGIC PLEASE LIMIT HANDLING OF THE PRODUCT , IF ASSISTANCE IS NEEDED , PLEASE ASK A CAST MEMBER . ”
Starting in January , Disney closed theme parks around the world to help curb the spread of the novel coronavirus .
On Wednesday , Disney Chief Executive Officer Robert Chapek told CNBC the company currently has about 20,000 people per day visiting Shanghai Disneyland , which reopened on May 11 with mandatory masks , temperature screenings and social distancing for visitors and employees .
Disney will soon reveal plans for reopening its Anaheim , California , Disneyland amusement park , the company ’s original themed attraction , according to a company spokeswoman .
Welcoming visitors again to its parks is key to Disney ’s recovery from the global shutdowns sparked by the pandemic .
Disney has estimated it lost $ 1 billion at its theme parks division from January through March .
Disney ’s four Walt Disney World theme parks attracted 157.3 million visitors in 2018 , according to the Themed Entertainment Association trade group .
Reporting by Helen Coster in New York and Lisa Richwine in Los Angeles ; Editing by Anil D'Silva and Jonathan Oatis

Michelin-starred takeout: French chef Guy Savoy turns to lockdown deliveries .
2020-05-27 16:42:56 +00:00 .
Chef Gilles Chesneau prepares takeaway menus at Michelin - starred restaurant Le Chiberta in Paris before the announcement by the French government of more easing lockdown measures to allow the reopening of restaurants as soon as possible following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in France , May 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Gonzalo Fuentes PARIS ( Reuters ) -
It ’s not your typical takeout menu , even in Paris : raw trout in a sour cream followed by quail confit with a cauliflower and almond sauce .
Then again , in normal times three - star Michelin chef Guy Savoy does n’t do delivery .
One of the world ’s most celebrated chefs , Savoy opened one of his four Paris restaurants , Le Chiberta near the Arc de Triomphe , for takeaway after France partially relaxed some coronavirus lockdown restrictions earlier this month .
“ We wanted to do this to show people that we ’re still here , still here to help them keep up their spirits , ” said Gilles Chesneau , executive chef at Savoy ’s restaurants .
On the abbreviated three - course menu are simplified takes on some of Savoy ’s signature dishes .
While the set menu ’s fixed price of 55 euros may for some be eye - wateringly expensive compared to regular takeout fare , it is for others an affordable way to discover the culinary touch of a masterchef .
Le Chiberta is delivering about 35 meals a day , Chesneau said , and will continue doing so even after the 70 - cover restaurant reopens to compensate for the reduced seating .
“ It ’s tough for restaurants right now , ” said legal secretary Pauline Bakomera as she bought one of Savoy ’s meals for a client .
France tiptoed out of lockdown on May 11 , allowing schools to slowly reopen and shops and manufacturing plants to resume operations .
But it kept restaurants , cafes and bars closed .
Prime Minister Edouard Philippe will announce measures to further unwind the lockdown on Thursday .
Restaurants across the country on Wednesday dressed empty tables in an appeal to government to revive the struggling industry .
“ We ’ve got to get things up and running , ” said Chesneau .
“ Otherwise it ’s not the virus that will kill us but the economy . ”
Reporting by Michaela Cabrera ; Writing by Richard Lough ;
Editing by Janet Lawrence

Nokia veteran Sari Baldauf takes over as 5G battle rages .
2020-05-27 15:49:45 +00:00 .
HELSINKI ( Reuters ) -
Sari Baldauf took over as chairwoman of telecoms equipment maker Nokia ( NOKIA.HE ) on Wednesday , succeeding Risto Siilasmaa who chaired the Finnish firm for eight years .
FILE PHOTO :
Visitors gather outside the Nokia booth at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona , Spain , February 26 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Sergio Perez Baldauf , one of the most high - profile female executives in the global telecoms industry , faces a tough task to fight back in the 5 G race , as rivals Ericsson ( ERICb . ST ) and Huawei put pressure on its sales and cash reserves .
Nokia , which axed its dividend after a profit warning last October , has been trying to tackle costs and shipment delays .
In a video address to shareholders for the company ’s annual general meeting , Siilasmaa applauded Baldauf ’s “ wealth of experience ” and gave assurances that she would focus on improving financial results .
Outgoing Chief Executive Rajeev Suri , who will hand over to Pekka Lundmark in September , said the company will emerge from the coronavirus crisis stronger than before , and had a strengthened supply chain with 25 factories around the globe .
Nokia has been hampered by delays in its system - on - chip ( SoC ) development - an entire computer system on a single chip which allows the company to cut costs .
Suri said the integration of former French - American rival Alcatel - Lucent , which Nokia acquired for 15.6 billion euros ( $ 17.17 billion ) in 2016 , had not been easy but was now complete , both operationally and culturally .
“ At the same time , the 5 G market timeline accelerated ... we had to accelerate our development efforts and this did not happen without challenges , ” Suri said .
Baldauf , 64 , rejoined the Nokia board in 2018 , having already been a member between 1994 and 2005 .
She is the last remaining executive from former chairman and CEO Jorma Ollila ’s team , which in the late 1990s turned a Finnish company with a tiny tech unit into the world ’s biggest cellphone maker .
( $ 1 = 0.9088 euros )
Reporting by Tarmo Virki , Anne Kauranen and Supantha Mukherjee ; editing by David Evans , Barbara Lewis ,
Kirsten Donovan

UPDATE 1-Man Utd draws down loan for potential player buys .
2020-05-27 15:16:18 +00:00 .
( Adds dividend detail and wider Covid-19 impact )
By Alasdair Reilly LONDON , May 27 ( LPC ) - Premier League football club Manchester United has drawn £ 140 m of its £ 150 m ( US$ 184.34 m )
syndicated revolving credit facility ( RCF ) , which could potentially be used to fund player acquisitions , after the club ’s operating cash flows were hit by the Covid-19 crisis .
Government restrictions have seen all top - flight football games suspended in the UK since mid - March , heavily impacting broadcasting and matchday revenues .
Based on government guidance and agreed medical protocols , play is expected to resume in June .
Manchester United said it precautionarily drew funds from the RCF to increase its cash position , preserve financial flexibility and maintain liquidity during the crisis .
The secured RCF , which matures in April 2025 , pays a margin ranging from 125bp to 175bp over Libor / Euribor , depending on leverage .
Bank of America is facility agent and security trustee on the revolver .
Historically the RCF has been undrawn during the summer transfer window , but if the club looked to buy players with values substantially more than the players being sold , it could use cash from the facility to meet its needs .
Manchester United ’s main cash requirements stem from the payment of transfer fees , capital expenditure for the improvement of facilities at Old Trafford and the club ’s training complex , payment of interest on borrowings , employee benefit expenses , and the payment of dividends .
These expenses are normally met through a combination of operating cash flow and proceeds from the transfer fees .
The wider impact of Covid-19 on the club ’s revenue streams and cash flows will vary depending on the success of UK and international governmental measures to manage the spread of the disease ; the length of time that such measures remain in place , their impact on future consumer behaviour and the ability to play football matches , the club said .
Despite the crisis , Manchester United will pay its regular US$ 0.09 per share semi - annual cash dividend on June 3 .
The club has already paid £ 11.32 m in dividends in the nine months to March 2020 .
The club also has US$ 425 m of senior secured bonds maturing in June 2027 and a US$ 225 m secured term loan facility maturing in August 2029 .
( $ 1 = 0.8137 pounds )
( Editing by Christopher Mangham )

UK workers covered by coronavirus wage subsidy hit 8.4 million .
2020-05-27 13:50:46 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Some 8.4 million employees in Britain are covered by a state wage subsidy scheme for temporarily laid - off workers , up 400,000 from last week , finance minister Rishi Sunak said as he prepares to tell companies how they will share some of the cost .
FILE PHOTO :
Britain 's Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak attends a news conference on the ongoing situation with the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in London , Britain , March 17 , 2020 .
Matt Dunham / Pool via REUTERS /
File
Photo
The value of claims for wage subsidies filed by employers rose to 15 billion pounds ( $ 18.4 billion ) as of May 24 from 11.1 billion pounds a week earlier , the finance ministry said .
Britain ’s job retention scheme is the centrepiece of its attempts to cushion the coronavirus hit to the economy by prevent a surge in unemployment .
Sunak earlier this month extended the scheme by four months until the end of October but told employers they would have to help to meet its soaring cost from August .
Sunak is due to announce this week how much employers will have to contribute .
He is also expected to set new rules on how the scheme will allow part - time working , something employers have said they need to get back up to speed after the lockdown .
“ Our support schemes continue to deliver for people and businesses up and down the country , ” Sunak said .
The finance ministry said small businesses had borrowed more than 18 billion pounds under a government - guaranteed coronavirus credit programme during its first three weeks of operation , outpacing bank lending under other schemes for bigger firms .
Britain ’s government offers banks a 100 % credit guarantee on loans of up to 50,000 pounds under its Bounce Back Loan Scheme ( BBLS ) after an earlier programme with an 80 % guarantee made slow progress .
The BBLS has lent 18.49 billion pounds to 608,069 small businesses as of May 24 , up from 14.2 billion pounds by May 17 .
By contrast an earlier programme that lends up to 5 million pounds , the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme , has only lent 8.15 billion pounds since its launch in March .
Banks have approved about half of loan applications under CBILS so far , compared with 79 % for the BBLS .
Sunak initially opposed offering full state guarantees for bank lending , due partly to the risk of bad debts , but allowed it for the smallest firms after pressure from business groups , legislators and the Bank of England .
( $ 1 = 0.8126 pounds )
Reporting by William Schomberg and Andy Bruce , editing by
Estelle Shirbon

Where U.S. coronavirus cases are on the rise .
2020-05-27 01:21:15 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Twenty U.S. states reported an increase in new cases of COVID-19 for the week ended May 24 , up from 13 states in the prior week , as the death toll from the novel coronavirus approaches 100,000 , according to a Reuters analysis .
FILE PHOTO :
A medical staff member treats a patient suffering from the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in the Intensive Care Unit ( ICU ) , at Scripps Mercy Hospital in Chula Vista , California , U.S. , May 12 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Lucy Nicholson / File Photo Alabama had the biggest weekly increase at 28 % , Missouri ’s new cases rose 27 % and North Carolina ’s rose 26 % , according to the analysis of data from The COVID Tracking Project , a volunteer - run effort to track the outbreak .
New cases in Georgia , one of the first states to reopen , rose 21 % after two weeks of declines .
The state attributed the increase to a backlog of test results and more testing .
( Open tmsnrt.rs/2WTOZDR in an external browser for a Reuters interactive )
Nationally , new cases of COVID-19 fell 0.8 % for the week ended May 24 , compared with a decline of 8 % in the prior week .
All 50 states have now at least partially reopened , raising fears among some health officials of a second wave of outbreaks .
The increase in cases could also be due to more testing .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) has recommended states wait for their daily number of new COVID-19 cases to fall for 14 days before easing social distancing restrictions .
As of May 24 , 15 states had met that criteria , up from 13 in the prior week , according to the Reuters analysis .
Washington state , where the U.S. outbreak started , has the longest streak with cases falling for eight weeks in a row , followed by Hawaii at seven weeks and Pennsylvania and New York at six weeks .
GRAPHIC : Tracking the novel coronavirus in the U.S. - here Kentucky posted a nearly 30 % drop in new cases and New York was down 23 % , according to the Reuters analysis .
Texas saw new cases fall 15 % after they rose 22 % in the prior week .
GRAPHIC : World - focused tracker with country - by - country - here Reporting by Chris Canipe in Kansas City , Missouri , and Lisa Shumaker in Chicago ;
Editing by Tiffany Wu

Brazilian nurse with COVID-19 reunited with her baby after giving birth on ventilator .
2020-05-26 21:36:26 +00:00 .
RIO DE JANEIRO ( Reuters ) - Brazilian nurse Rusia Goes gave birth while unconscious and breathing through a ventilator tube in April as she battled severe COVID-19 symptoms .
Rusia Goes , a nurse who gave birth on April 26 hooked to a ventilator tube to help her breath as she battled severe symptoms of COVID-19 , carries her daughter Luisa , her pre - mature birth baby , after she was released from the hospital , during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , May 25 , 2020 .
Picture taken May 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Ricardo Moraes
It would be nearly a month before the 42 - year - old was reunited with her newborn daughter .
“ Only God knows how much I missed that little one , who had been inside me , and all of a sudden was taken out because of all of this , ” she told Reuters in an interview on Monday .
Goes is one of at least 374,000 Brazilians infected by the virus , now the world ’s second - biggest outbreak after the United States .
Over 23,000 people have died .
While she normally works as a nurse in a neonatal intensive care unit , Goes stayed home once the coronavirus outbreak started .
But her husband Ednaldo Goes suspects he may have transmitted the virus to her as he continued to go out to work and shop for the family .
When Rusia Goes checked into a Rio de Janeiro hospital with shortness of breath and other COVID-19 symptoms , she was just beginning the eighth month of her pregnancy .
Doctors recommended a premature birth by cesarean section to better treat the mother ’s condition .
The baby tested negative for the virus and was isolated from Goes , who was transferred to another hospital as her condition worsened .
She said the battle with the respiratory disease was hard and “ very painful , ” but slowly she was able to recover .
She first met her daughter Luisa virtually , via a video link to her husband and the baby in another hospital .
Goes was finally released from the hospital after two weeks and first met her daughter in person on May 20 - some 26 days after giving birth .
Masked medical staff gathered with balloons and applauded as Goes left the hospital with her baby in her arms .
“ To hold her to my chest was so emotional , ” she said .
Reporting by Sergio Queiroz ; Additional reporting by Pedro Fonseca ; Writing by Jake Spring ;
Editing by Rosalba O'Brien

Queues and limited browsing in store for English shoppers .
2020-05-26 17:20:03 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) -
People eager to hit the shops again when English high street retailers , department stores and shopping centres reopen will face queuing and few opportunities to try products .
A social distancing sign is seen in Stradivarius clothes store in Oxford Street , London , following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , London , Britain , May 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
John Sibley Stores will look and operate very differently from how they did before a coronavirus lockdown was imposed on March 23 as they comply with new health and safety and social distancing rules .
The British government said on Monday that outdoor markets and car showrooms in England can reopen from June 1 followed by all other non - essential retail from June 15 .
The reopening only applies to England , with retailers in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland waiting for guidance from their devolved administrations on when they can resume trading .
Several of the biggest retailers are not planning to open a swathe of stores straight away , with retail analysts warning that compliance with the new health regulations will bring complexity to trading and higher operating and capital costs .
Next ( NXT.L ) , which has about 500 clothing stores in Britain and Ireland , said it would only reopen 25 on June 15 , while department store chain John Lewis , which has 50 stores , said it would phase its reopening to test the changes .
Fashion retailer Primark ( ABF.L ) , which has about 190 stores in Britain , said it would only reopen them when “ convinced that it is safe and right to do so . ”
Marks Spencer ( MKS.L ) , which has kept its food business going through the crisis , was the exception in planning to reopen the majority of its clothing activities on June 15 .
LOOK , DON’T TOUCH
All four retailers are benefiting from a job retention furlough scheme which the government told employers they will not have to help meet the cost of until August .
The safety guidance , laid out in a 33 - page document , requires more cleaning , queuing systems with one - way flows and increased signage , and fewer customers in stores , while shopping with children is discouraged .
As at supermarkets , which have traded through the lockdown , check - out areas in English stores will have increased screening , while store staff will wear equipment such as face masks and gloves .
Regular hand sanitisation will be encouraged .
Customers will also be encouraged to avoid handling products whilst browsing - a particular problem for clothing retailers .
Fitting rooms should be closed wherever possible , while goods that have been tried - on or returned by customers should be stored in a container or separate room for 72 hours , or cleaned , before being re - displayed .
“ Queues outside stores , restricted numbers inside , no ability to browse with friends , nor to try on ( or possibly even touch ) clothes before the purchasing decision will all severely detract from the shopping experience , ” David Beadle of Moody ’s Investors Service said .
“ As such , prospects of lower revenue and additional costs will see some retailers keep shops closed initially at least . ”
Reporting by James Davey ;
Editing by Susan Fenton and Alexander Smith

Hedge funds target France as short-selling bans lifted .
2020-05-26 12:22:07 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - A cluster of big name hedge funds have started betting against French companies , moving in after the lifting of a short - selling ban imposed earlier this year to calm financial markets , an analysis of regulatory filings showed .
FILE PHOTO :
An electronic screen shows CAC 40 stock information at the Euronext headquarters at La Defense business and financial district in Courbevoie near Paris , France , November 21 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Charles Platiau / File Photo France joined Italy , Spain , Belgium , Austria and Greece in dropping short - selling bans last week .
They had banned the practice for many stocks two months ago to curb extreme stock market volatility caused by economic uncertainty that has resulted from the coronavirus lockdowns .
Hedge funds engage in so - called “ short - selling ” by borrowing a stock from an institutional investor , such as a pension fund , and selling it back when the shares fall , pocketing the profit .
Financial market regulators have banned short - selling during bouts of stock market turbulence in the past because of a perception it can add to market instability .
Regulatory filings in the seven days since the bans ended showed that France accounted for more than half the 125 regulatory notifications of changes to short positions against companies in the six markets .
Citadel , Marshall Wace and Millennium are among hedge funds that have taken out short positions on French companies over the past week , with Peugeot ( PEUP.PA ) and Air France - KLM ( AIRF.PA ) among the most prominent targets .
British hedge fund Sandbar Asset Management took the opportunity to double its short position in Air France to 1.2 % of the company ’s equity capital on May 20 , from 0.6 % on March 17 .
London - based Marshall Wace also added to its bet against Air France last week .
It rose to 2.72 % on May 20 from 2.66 % on March 31 .
Hedge fund Millennium has made a short bet on payments company Worldline ( WLN.PA ) , while automaker Peugeot and cable industry leader Nexans ( NEXS.PA ) have also attracted hedge fund short sellers .
American hedge fund Citadel added to short positions in automotive supplier Valeo ( VLOF.PA ) and CGG ( GEPH.PA ) , a manufacturer of geophysical equipment .
European short - selling laws mean only bets against companies of 0.5 % and above need to be publicly disclosed .
It was also not known if hedge funds had offsetting long positions .
Citadel , Millennium , Sandbar and Marshall Wace all declined to comment on their short positions .
Reporting by Maiya Keidan .
Editing by Jane Merriman

UK's Micro Focus relaunches smaller, pricier refi loan .
2020-05-26 10:57:08 +00:00 .
LONDON ( LPC ) - UK software company Micro Focus International has relaunched an US$ 835m - equivalent dual - currency term loan to refinance debt , having been forced to postpone the transaction in March due to adverse market conditions .
FILE PHOTO :
A sign stands outside the offices of Micro Focus in Newbury , Britain , September 8 , 2016 .
REUTERS / Eddie Keogh
The loan , which will refinance a portion of an existing 2021 dollar - denominated TLB , is smaller and pricing is higher than the deal that was originally launched in February .
The refinancing comprises a € 400 m term loan B and a US$ 400 m term loan B , guided to pay 450bp over Euribor / Libor at 97 OID .
The euro tranche is offered with a 0 % floor and the dollar has a 1 % floor .
There is call protection of non - call 1 , 102 and the loan will amortise at 2.5 % per annum .
Lenders have been asked to commit to the refinancing by May 29 , following a lender call on May 26 .
The refinancing originally comprised a minimum US$ 500 m tranche and a minimum € 500 m tranche .
The firm also intended to extend a US$ 500 m RCF from September 2022 to June 2024 .
The dollar tranche was guided at 375bp-400bp over Libor , at 99 OID , while the euro tranche was offered at 325bp-350bp over Euribor , at 99.5 OID .
JP Morgan is leading the loan refinancing , alongside Barclays , HSBC , NatWest , Bank of America and Goldman Sachs .
Micro Focus will use the new term loans , along with US$ 150 m of cash on balance sheet , to refinance a portion of the dollar - denominated TLB .
Current corporate and facility ratings are B1 / BB-/BB-/. Micro Focus drew US$ 175 m from its US$ 500 m RCF as a precautionary measure as a result of the Covid-19 crisis .
The company placed the drawn funds in accessible money market facilities in order to further increase its available liquidity , which stood at US$ 1.1bn at the end of April .
The RCF is due to mature in September 2022 .
The pandemic disrupted new sales activity and the company expects to report revenue of around US$ 1.45bn in the first half , down around 11 % compared to the six months ended April 30 , 2019 .
Editing by Christopher Mangham

Australia, NZ shares hit 2-1/2-month high on bets of economic recovery .
2020-05-26 06:49:43 +00:00 .
( Updates to close )
* ASX 200 enjoys best day in nearly seven weeks
* Afterpay breaches A$ 50 mark for the first time
* Tourism Holdings top gainer among NZ stocks
By Shashwat Awasthi
May 26 ( Reuters ) - Australia and New Zealand stock indexes on Tuesday surged to their highest in more than two months , fuelled by mounting hopes of a global economic recovery as more countries emerge from the coronavirus - induced lockdown .
The SP / ASX 200 index advanced more than 2 % for the second straight session and ended 2.9 % firmer at 5,780 points .
The benchmark hit the highest level since March 11 and enjoyed its best session since April 9 .
In New Zealand , which reported a monthly trade surplus in April , the main SP / NZX 50 bourse closed 1.3 % higher at 10,914.74 points after touching its highest since March 11 .
Japan on Monday joined a growing list of countries that have relaxed curbs instated to contain the spread of the pandemic .
Meanwhile , China vowed to strengthen its economic policy and continue efforts to lower lending rates to revive its economy .
“ Months out from reporting season and with plenty of noisy and backward - looking headline data we do n’t have much to hold onto except hope , and that ’s what this recovery trade we are seeing this week is based on , ” analysts at RBC Capital markets said .
In Australia , Prime Minister Scott Morrison called for an ideological truce between employers and workers to revive the economy , but said the country would not open its borders “ anytime soon ” .
All sub - indexes on the Aussie index firmed , gaining between 1.7 % and 4.3 % .
Buy - now - pay - later firm Afterpay , whose shares have hit successive record levels in recent weeks , scaled a fresh peak and breached the A$ 50 mark for the first time ever .
The stock ended up 0.4 % .
However , New Century Resources tumbled 6 % after the zinc miner confirmed talks to buy Vale SA ’s nickel and cobalt operations on the Pacific island of New Caledonia .
New Zealand ’s Tourism Holdings jumped 10 % after the travel company said it would restructure parts of its business .
Tensions between the United States and China continued to simmer following Beijing ’s proposals for stricter security laws in Hong Kong , but failed to deter investors across Asia from moving towards risky assets .
“ What is clear is that the peak - virus trade continues to maintain its strong positive momentum , ” said Jeffrey Halley , senior market analyst , Asia Pacific at OANDA .
“ Negative headlines on trade and security may cause short - term falls , but they appear to provide dips to get longer rather than structural changes in sentiment . ”
( Reporting by Shashwat Awasthi in Bengaluru , Editing by Sherry Jacob - Phillips )

Novak Djokovic to host Balkan event after finally returning home from Spain .
2020-05-25 17:51:19 +00:00 .
BELGRADE ( Reuters ) -
Novak Djokovic marked his return to Serbia , after being stranded in the Spanish resort of Marbella for two months due to the coronavirus lockdown , by announcing that he has organised an event which will be contested across the Balkans .
World number one tennis player Novak Djokovic reacts at a news conference on the upcoming Adria Tour tennis tournament , in Belgrade , Serbia , May 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Marko Djurica
When the world number one had travelled to Marbella with his family in mid - March to visit his younger brother Marko , he had no idea it would be another two months before he could return to his homeland on Sunday .
But it was not all bad news for Djokovic .
“ Unlike many other players , I was able to train almost every day because we resided in a house with a tennis court , ” a tanned Djokovic told a news conference at his private tennis complex in downtown Belgrade by the Danube river .
“ I refrained from posting clips on social networks because I did n’t want to infuriate other players .
I am fit and in good shape , so I am looking forward to the Adria Tour , which I am organising . ”
Australian Open holder Djokovic , who went on an 18 - 0 run at the start of the season , confirmed there would be three big names apart from himself at the June 13 - July 5 tournament .
“ I am delighted that Dominic Thiem , Grigor Dimitrov and Alexander Zverev will be my guests here in my hometown , ” said the 17 - times major champion .
“ This is the first time any of them will be playing here and I will do everything in my power to be a good host .
“ We would dearly love for fans to be able to attend but that ’s still not certain because we have to abide by the Serbian government ’s coronavirus regulations . ”
The first leg will take place on red clay in Belgrade on June 13 and 14 at Djokovic ’s complex and the second in Croatia ’s coastal resort Zadar on June 20 and 21 .
Montenegro and Bosnia have been designated to host the final two legs but Djokovic said the infrastructure was still not in place .
“ Bosnia and Montenegro are still not 100 % certain as the hosts of the final two legs because we have n’t had enough time to prepare the infrastructure , but we are very nearly there .
“ As for the three big names coming over , they will all play in the opening leg in Belgrade .
Zverev might play in Croatia too while Dimitrov could appear in Croatia and in Montenegro . ”
All four tournaments will feature eight players , competing in two pools of four on a round - robin basis with the winners of each pool advancing to the final .
Djokovic added sets would be slashed to winning four games instead of six , with a total of 13 matches to be played over two days in each leg .
Asked whether he considered inviting longtime rivals Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal to the event , Djokovic said : “ Quite frankly , inviting Federer did n’t cross my mind because ... he is still nursing a knee injury .
“ As for Nadal , I have no problem giving him a call
but I would n’t expect him to come over . ”
Writing by Zoran Milosavljevic ;
Editing by Pritha Sarkar

New emissions blow for VW as German court backs damages claims .
2020-05-25 11:51:00 +00:00 .
KARLSRUHE , Germany ( Reuters ) -
Volkswagen ( VOWG_p . DE ) must pay compensation to owners of vehicles with rigged diesel engines in Germany , a court ruled on Monday , dealing a fresh blow to the automaker almost five years after its emissions scandal erupted .
FILE PHOTO :
A cartoon of a VW logo squashing the coronavirus is displayed on a building at Volkswagen 's headquarters to celebrate the plant 's re - opening during the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Wolfsburg , Germany April 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Fabian Bimmer
The ruling by Germany ’s highest court for civil disputes , which will allow owners to return vehicles for a partial refund of the purchase price , serves as a template for about 60,000 lawsuits that are still pending with lower German courts .
Volkswagen admitted in September 2015 to cheating emissions tests on diesel engines , a scandal which has already cost it more than 30 billion euros ( $ 33 billion ) in regulatory fines and vehicle refits , mostly in the United States .
U.S. authorities banned the affected cars after the cheat software was discovered , triggering claims for compensation .
But in Europe vehicles remained on the roads , leading Volkswagen to argue compensation claims there were without merit .
European authorities instead forced the company to update its engine control software and fined it for fraud and administrative lapses .
Volkswagen said on Monday it would work urgently with motorists on an agreement that would see them hold on to the vehicles for a one - off compensation payment .
It did not give an estimate of how much the ruling by the German federal court , the Bundesgerichtshof ( BGH ) , might cost it .
Volkswagen shares were 0.5 % lower at 1040 GMT .
The BGH ’s presiding judge had signalled earlier this month he saw grounds for compensation .
COSTS MOUNT
“ The verdict by the BGH draws a final line .
It creates clarity on the BGH ’s views on the underlying questions in the diesel proceedings for most of the 60,000 cases still pending , ” Volkswagen said .
A lower court in the city of Koblenz had previously ruled the owner of a VW Sharan minivan had suffered pre - meditated damage , entitling him to reimbursement minus a discount for the mileage the motorist had already benefited from .
The court at the time said he should be awarded 25,600 euros for the used - car purchase he made for 31,500 euros in 2014 .
“ We have in principle confirmed the verdict from the Koblenz upper regional court , ” said BGH presiding federal judge Stephan Seiters .
Volkswagen had petitioned for the ruling to be quashed altogether by the higher court , while the plaintiff had appealed to have the deduction removed .
A Volkswagen spokesman said that outside Germany , more than 100,000 claims for damages were still pending , of which 90,000 cases were in Britain .
The carmaker also said it had paid out a total of 750 million euros to more than 200,000 separate claimants in Germany who had opted against individual claims and instead joined a class action lawsuit brought by a German consumer group .
The carmaker said last month it would set aside a total of 830 million for that deal .
In a separate court , Volkswagen agreed last week to pay 9 million euros to end proceedings against its chairman and chief executive , who were accused of withholding market - moving information before the emissions scandal came to light .
Reporting by Ursula Knapp and Ilona Wissenbach ; Writing by Ludwig Burger ;
Editing by Maria Sheahan and Mark Potter

'Own goals' cost Abe support even as coronavirus emergency lifted .
2020-05-25 11:36:13 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) -
A string of controversial missteps has slashed public approval ratings for Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to levels that could threaten to end his term early , even as he lifted a state of emergency after the rate of coronavirus infections declined .
FILE PHOTO :
Japan 's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe speaks during a news conference in Tokyo , Japan , May 14 , 2020 .
Akio Kon / Pool via REUTERS /
File photo
The slide in ratings , now below 30 % , may erode Abe ’s clout in his Liberal Democratic Party and has sparked speculation that he might step down before the end of his term as ruling party leader , and hence premier , in September 2021 .
His response to the pandemic , which critics call clumsy and tone deaf , had already eaten into Abe ’s support .
Then came a furore over his attempt to keep Tokyo ’s top prosecutor in his job after retirement age and to enact a bill extending prosecutors ’ retirement age , which critics say would erode judicial independence .
The prosecutor , Hiromu Kurokawa , resigned on Thursday after admitting he played mahjong for money during the state of emergency , when citizens were asked to stay home .
“ Perhaps Abe will be able to stop the decline if the coronavirus situation does n’t worsen and as the Kurokawa scandal fades , ” said Columbia University emeritus professor Gerry Curtis .
“ But I ca n’t see him regaining much ground .
He is a lame duck at best and if the numbers go down any further a dead one . ”
Japan has not suffered the explosive surge of coronavirus infections seen elsewhere , and Abe on Monday lifted a state of emergency for Tokyo and four other prefectures , the only areas where the measures had remained in place .
A weekend opinion poll by the Asahi newspaper , however , showed his support rate had slid to 29 % , echoing a fall to 27 % posted in a Mainichi newspaper survey published on Saturday .
Nearly 70 % of voters in the Asahi poll said Abe had “ big responsibility ” for trying to retain Kurokawa .
Fifty - seven percent disapproved of how he handled the coronavirus outbreak .
A costly programme to send two protective cloth masks to each household was marred by complaints .
Abe also had to ditch a plan for cash payments of 300,000 yen ( $ 2,786 ) for hard - hit households and replace it with 100,000 yen payouts for every citizen .
But the new program was criticised for hurdles and delays .
At a news conference , Abe lauded his government ’s handling of the outbreak as a “ Japan model ” that achieved good results , while acknowledging some problems and delays .
He said he ’d “ humbly ” accept criticism over the Kurokawa affair while focusing on containing the virus and reviving the economy .
Japan ’s economy is on track for its deepest slump in postwar history , an outlook that could make it hard for Abe - who has survived rough patches before - to regain his footing .
Several names have been floated as possible successors , including former foreign minister Fumio Kishida and ex - defence minister Shigeru Ishiba , a rare LDP critic of the premier .
Kishida lacks popular support , and while Ishiba fares well in voter opinion polls , his backing within the LDP is weak .
“ If there were an obvious successor , Abe might have to quit , but there does n’t seem to be anyone , ” said Nihon University political science professor Tomoaki Iwai .
“ It ’s the worst possible situation . ”
( $ 1 = 107.6800 yen )
reporting by Linda Sieg .
Editing by Gerry Doyle
Simon Cameron - Moore

Defiant Netanyahu goes on trial in Israel charged with corruption .
2020-05-24 15:58:25 +00:00 .
JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) - Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday became the first serving Israeli prime minister to go on trial , proclaiming his innocence in the corridor before walking into court to face charges of bribery , fraud and breach of trust .
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delivers a statement before entering the district court room where he is facing a trial for alleged corruption crimes , in Jerusalem May 24 2020 .
Yonatan Sindel / Pool via REUTERS
The trial came a week after Israel ’s longest - serving leader was sworn in to a record fifth term , demonstrating his knack for survival by securing an unexpected power - sharing deal with his main opponent after three inconclusive elections in a year .
He says the cases against him are a left - wing plot to unseat him .
Netanyahu , 70 , was indicted in November in cases involving gifts from millionaire friends and for allegedly seeking regulatory favours for media tycoons in return for favourable coverage .
He appeared at Jerusalem District Court flanked by a clutch of cabinet ministers from his right - wing Likud party .
In the courtroom , Netanyahu and the judges wore face masks because of the coronavirus crisis .
One of the judges asked Netanyahu whether he had read and understood the indictment .
He replied : “ Yes , your Honour . ”
The hearing lasted an hour .
The court excused Netanyahu from appearing in person at the next hearing , set for July 19 .
Israeli analysts say the trial could last months or even years .
Before the hearing , Netanyahu appealed to public opinion , taking off his mask to address television cameras in the courthouse hallway .
“ These investigations were tainted and stitched - up from the first moment , ” Netanyahu said .
“ I am appearing here today , as your prime minister , standing tall and with head high , ” he said .
Supporters , some in masks , rallied outside the East Jerusalem building , their chants of “ Bibi , King of Israel ” , using his nickname , audible in the courthouse .
One supporter ’s sign read : “ You ’ll never walk alone ” .
Anti - Netanyahu demonstrators gathered outside his residence in central Jerusalem holding up a banner reading “ Crime Minister , ” a slogan that also appeared on some face masks .
Netanyahu , in power now for 11 straight years plus three in the 1990s , kept the position of prime minister by securing the power - sharing deal last month with his main opponent , the centrist former general Benny Gantz .
The pact also opens the way for Netanyahu to proceed towards a pledged annexation of parts of the occupied West Bank , land that Palestinians seek for a state .
Bribery charges carry a sentence of up to 10 years in jail and/or a fine .
Fraud and breach of trust carry a prison sentence of up to three years .
Writing by Jeffrey Heller ;
Editing by Dan Williams and Peter Graff

Portuguese soak up the sun on first state-sanctioned beach weekend .
2020-05-23 13:47:12 +00:00 .
LISBON ( Reuters ) - Surfboards , beach buckets and picnic baskets in tow , Portuguese flocked to the ocean in droves on Saturday for their first state - sanctioned beach weekend of the year .
Social distancing markings are seen on the sidewalk at Carcavelos beach , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Cascais , Portugal May 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Rafael Marchante
“ It ’s so great to see the sea and get some sun after two months , ” said Catarina , who arrived to Carcavelos Beach , half an hour from Lisbon , at 9 a.m. with her husband and daughter .
But despite her relief , Catarina was n’t sure this newfound freedom could last long .
“ Most are behaving ... but there are a lot of groups , and that ’s what causes contagion , is n’t it ?
I do n’t know , by next month I think we ’ll all be back in our homes , ” she said .
The nation of 10 million people has reported just 30,471 confirmed cases of the new coronavirus and 1,302 deaths , a small fraction of neighbouring Spain ’s 28,628 fatalities .
Restrictions imposed during a six - week state of emergency starting March 18 are being lifted in 15 - day intervals , as long as the number of cases keeps falling .
As temperatures rose , people were itching to get back into the water .
“ Yesterday was already busy , ” Jose Primo , a waiter at a beach restaurant in Carcavelos , said .
“ But today , my God !
It ’s chaos . ”
Some confusion was caused after Prime Minister Antonio Costa announced on May 15 beaches would open on June 6 , but a government decree published two days later stated people could go to the beach from the beginning of this week .
A smartphone app due to be in operation from June 6 is supposed to help avoid crowding by warning which bathing spots are full .
In the meantime people are anticipating crowds .
In southern Algarve , savvy beach - goers are reserving beach chairs and umbrellas ahead of time to secure their spot on the sand .
Rui Cardoso , owner of a beach business , told news agency Lusa : “ You can really tell people are worried there ’ll be no space . ”
Reporting by Victoria Waldersee ; Additional reporting by Miguel Pereira and Rafael Marchante ;
Editing by David Holmes

Argentina hits 10,000 coronavirus cases, outpaced by LatAm neighbors .
2020-05-23 00:31:41 +00:00 .
A woman wearing a protective face mask walks past Puente de la Mujer during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Buenos Aires , Argentina May 18 , 2020 .
Picture taken May 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Agustin Marcarian BUENOS AIRES ( Reuters ) - Argentina surpassed 10,000 confirmed cases of the coronavirus on Friday , after recording the highest single - day increase since the start of the pandemic .
There are 10,649 cases , up by 718 from a day earlier , mostly in capital Buenos Aires , government data showed .
The death toll is at 433 .
The rate of daily confirmed infections has steadily increased in the last week , though Argentina is still heavily outpaced by its regional neighbors .
Brazil has the highest infection rate on the continent and became the world no.2 hotspot in terms of case numbers on Friday .
Argentina has been under a mandatory lockdown in most parts of the country since March 20 and has one of the strictest travel bans in the world , blocking the sale and purchase of flights until September .
The government extended the lockdown until May 24 for some parts of the country , while relaxing some limited restrictions on movement and businesses .
The city of Buenos Aires , which has the highest concentration of cases in the country , is still under the toughest restrictions , though people have begun to venture out more as some business sectors reopen .
“ The measures that were taken at the beginning were good , but due to the greater flexibility , many more people began to go out and today we are getting to what we did not want , the peak of infections , ” said Buenos Aires resident Alan Godoy , wearing a mask on the street outside a subway station .
“ Unfortunately , we are in a country that lacks funds and people have to go out to work .
It is reality , ” he said .
Reporting by Cassandra Garrison and Miguel Lo Bianco , Editing by Rosalba O'Brien

Polish president's lead in polls narrows sharply ahead of election .
2020-05-22 15:24:05 +00:00 .
WARSAW ( Reuters ) -
Conservative Polish President Andrzej Duda has seen his lead narrow sharply ahead of an election expected to take place in coming weeks , opinion polls have shown , after preparations for a May 10 ballot collapsed amid the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
Polish President Andrzej Duda attends a news conference after talks with French President Emmanuel Macron in Warsaw , Poland February 3 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Kacper Pempel / File Photo Squabbles over how to organise the ballot during the outbreak plunged Poland into political turmoil , leaving the date of the vote unclear .
Some analysts said Duda ’s campaign appears to have lost steam amid political infighting , with the opposition accusing the government of failing to ensure fair and free voting in its preparations for a May 10 ballot .
The ruling nationalists have pushed for the election to be held as soon as possible , wary that a growing economic downturn could erode the chances of Duda , an important ally , to be re - elected .
Government officials say June 28 is now the most likely date .
Support for Duda has fallen 20 percentage points since April , according to a May 18 - 19 survey by the Kantar pollster , reaching 39 % .
Another poll , by IBRiS , showed him at 43 % .
Duda , one of Poland ’s most popular politicians , had polled as high as 63 % shortly before the election , his popularity driven in part by an election boycott announced by the biggest opposition party , the centrist Civic Platform ( PO ) .
A PO announcement last week to replace its candidate with popular Warsaw Mayor Rafal Trzaskowski appears to have galvanised centrist voters .
A prominent defender of gay rights , a highly divisive issue in the largely conservative Poland , Trzaskowski could win 18 % in the presidential ballot , securing second place , the Kantar poll showed .
Despite falling support , Duda is still likely to secure re - election , the pollster said .
If he fails to win more than 50 % of vote , he will have to compete with the runner up in a second round .
Kantar showed him winning 48 % to Trzaskowski ’s 41 % .
Reporting by Marcin Goclowski ; additional reporting by Pawel Florkiewicz ;
Editing by Justyna Pawlak and Nick Macfie

Plane crashes in Pakistan with 99 on board, many feared dead .
2020-05-22 12:14:49 +00:00 .
KARACHI , Pakistan ( Reuters ) - A Pakistan International Airlines ( PIA ) plane with 99 passengers and crew crashed into a residential area of the city of Karachi on Friday , with many feared dead , officials said .
A plume of smoke is seen after the crash of a PIA aircraft in Karachi , Pakistan May 22 , 2020 .
TWITTER / SHAHABNAFEES via REUTERS
Smoke billowed at the scene where flight PK 8303 came down , some rooves were caved in , and debris lay scattered in streets as ambulances rushed through chaotic crowds of people .
Seemin Jamali , a doctor at nearby Jinnah Hospital , confirmed to Reuters there were at least five corpses from the crash .
“ The areoplane first hit a mobile tower and crashed over houses , ” witness Shakeel Ahmed said near the site , just a few kilometres short of the airport .
The jet , which tracking website FlightRadar24.com identified as a 15 - year - old Airbus A320 , was flying from the eastern city of Lahore to Karachi in the south just as Pakistan was resuming domestic flights in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic .
“ The last we heard from the pilot was that he has some technical problem , ” the state carrier ’s spokesman Abdullah H. Khan said in a video statement .
“ He was told from the final approach that both the runways were ready where he can land , but the pilot decided that he wanted to do ( a ) go - round ...
It is a very tragic incident . ”
One senior civil aviation official told Reuters it appeared the plane was unable to open its wheels due to a technical fault prior to landing , but it was to early to determine the cause .
PM PROMISES INQUIRY
Pakistan ’s army and rescue services rushed to the site , which appeared to be a densely populated area .
Several cars were on fire , footage showed .
“ The pilot was told that he could land at the Karachi airports , he was told that both the runways were ready , but he took a circle and gave a MayDay call before the crash , ” another civil aviation official , Abdul Sattar Khohar , told Reuters .
“ We do n’t know yet whether he gave any reason at the time of the MayDay call . ”
In Pakistan ’s most recent deadly crash , 47 people died when a PIA jet smashed into a mountainside in Khyber - Pakhtunkhwa province in 2016 .
The country ’s worst plane disaster came in 2010 when an AirBlue flight crashed killing 152 people near Islamabad .
“ Shocked saddened by the PIA crash .
Am in touch with PIA CEO Arshad Malik , who has left for Karachi with the rescue relief teams on ground as this is the priority right now , ” tweeted Prime Minister Imran Khan .
“ Immediate inquiry will be instituted .
Prayers condolences go to families of the deceased . ”
Additional reporting by Asif Shahzad and Charlotte Greenfield in Islamabad ;
Editing by Andrew Cawthorne

As big cats go hungry, Indonesia zoo considers 'worst-case' deer cull .
2020-05-22 05:29:30 +00:00 .
BANDUNG , Indonesia ( Reuters ) -
A zoo in Indonesia may slaughter some of its animals to feed others , such as a Sumatran tiger and a Javan leopard , if it runs out of food in coming months after the coronavirus pandemic forced it to shut it doors .
Fitri , a 19 - year - old Sumatran tiger , is seen at a zoo amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Bandung , West Java Province , Indonesia , May 18 , 2020 .
Picture taken May 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Ajeng Dinar Ulfiana
While its 850 animals are being fed smaller portions than usual , the zoo is contemplating a “ worst - case scenario ” of culling some animals to feed others as it expects to run out of food in July .
The Badung zoo in Indonesia ’s fourth - biggest city , which usually earns about 1.2 billion rupiah ( $ 81,744 ) a month from visitors , shut on March 23 as part of a wider country lockdown to try to contain the outbreak .
“ We have around thirty dotted deer , and we have identified the old and unproductive ones ( who can no longer breed ) to be slaughtered to save the carnivores , such as the Sumatran tiger and Javan leopard , ” said zoo spokesman Sulhan Syafi’i .
Some birds including geese may also be culled , he said .
Big cats , including a critically endangered Sumatran tiger named Fitri , now get 8 kg ( 18 lb ) of meat every two days , down from 10 kg previously .
The zoo needs more than 400 kg of fruit per day and 120 kg of meat every other day , Syafi’i said , noting it is now relying on donations to keep its animals alive .
“ The crocodiles are fatter and the tigers are healthier too .
But the lion is still a bit skinny , ” said Fauzan Dzulfikar , who was allowed to visit after a donation .
The smaller daily portions have not gone unnoticed by the animals , even though Syafi’i said they still met minimum animal welfare standards .
Orangutan keeper Aep Saepudin said the endangered primates can go into a rage and throw things .
“ The food is finished , but they still want to eat , ” said Saepudin .
The Indonesia Zoo Association , which has requested help from President Joko Widodo , estimates 92 percent of the country ’s 60 zoos can only feed their animals until the end of May. ( $ 1 = 14,680.0000 rupiah )
Additional reporting by Tommy Ardiansyah ; Writing by Ed Davies ;
Editing by Ana Nicolaci da Costa

North Korea's Kim keeps low public profile in May - analysts .
2020-05-22 04:46:18 +00:00 .
SEOUL ( Reuters ) - North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has made an unusually small number of public appearances in the past two months , once again going three weeks without state media reporting his attendance at a public event , according to analysts .
FILE PHOTO :
North Korea 's leader Kim Jong Un sits in his vehicle after arriving at the Dong Dang railway station , Vietnam , at the border with China , February 26 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Athit Perawongmetha Kim ’s low profile comes as North Korea imposes anti - coronavirus measures , although the country says it has no confirmed cases , and follows intense speculation about his health last month after he missed a key anniversary .
Kim has appeared publicly four times in April and so far in May , compared to 27 times in the same period last year .
Since coming to power in 2011 , the previous fewest public appearances Kim has made during those months was 21 in 2017 , according to a tally by Chad O’Carroll , CEO of Korea Risk Group , a Seoul - based organisation that tracks North Korea .
“ This is not business as normal , ” he said in a post on Twitter this week .
As a leader with near - absolute power over North Korea ’s 25.5 million people , and access to a growing arsenal of nuclear weapons , Kim ’s health and whereabouts are often scrutinized by the international community for any signs of instability .
Information in North Korea is tightly controlled , however , and independently confirmed details on Kim are almost non - existent .
South Korean officials have said they believe Kim ’s limited public appearances may be precautions in the face of coronavirus concerns .
North Korea has cancelled , postponed , or toned down many major public gatherings because the new coronavirus .
When asked about Kim ’s absences , South Korea ’s Unification Ministry said on Friday it is monitoring the situation , but noted Kim is often out of the public eye .
Citing an unnamed South Korean government official , JoongAng Ilbo newspaper reported Kim may be carrying out his duties from a favoured villa in Wonsan , on the coast .
But the North Korean leader may also simply be focused on some of the domestic economic and political goals he outlined before the coronavirus crisis struck , said Rachel Minyoung Lee , a former North Korea open source intelligence analyst in the U.S. government .
“ COVID does remain a major concern for the country , but state media coverage of COVID has declined over the past month or so , so I do n’t seen regime ’s increased concern , ” she said .
Friday marks three weeks since state media last showed images of Kim attending a public event .
North Korean state media reported Kim attended the opening ceremony of a fertilizer plant on May 1 .
That appearance marked a reemergence for Kim , whose unprecedented absence from a major holiday on April 15 sparked weeks of international speculation over his health and whereabouts .
Since then , state media has carried a steady stream of stories on Kim sending or receiving letters and diplomatic correspondence , but have not shown him attending public events .
Kim ’s longest public absence was for 40 days in 2014 .
South Korea ’s spy agency later said Kim had undergone a medical procedure on his ankle during that time .
Reporting by Josh Smith ; Editing by Lincoln Feast .

UPDATE 2-FTSE 100 retreats as recovery hopes dim, trade worries resurface .
2020-05-21 17:27:12 +00:00 .
* UK economy shrinks but pace of slide eases in May -PMI
* Rising U.S.-China trade tensions weigh on mood
*
Premier Inn owner declines after saying it will seek cash * EasyJet rises on plan to resume some flights in June
* FTSE 100 down 0.9 % , FTSE 250 up 0.1 % ( Adds comments , updates prices to close )
By Shreyashi Sanyal and Devik Jain
May 21 ( Reuters ) - London ’s FTSE 100 ended lower on Thursday as optimism faded about any speedy recovery from the coronavirus - induced economic slump , while U.S.-China trade tensions returned firmly to the forefront of investors ’ minds .
The export - heavy FTSE 100 slipped 0.9 % , taking the shine off strong gains earlier in the week .
However , the mid - cap FTSE 250 narrowly extended gains to a fifth day with a 0.1 % rise .
Grim economic data continued to pour in ; the UK economy shrank again in May , but at a slower pace than April , a survey by IHS Markit showed .
Risk appetite was also hindered by rising tensions between Washington and Beijing over China ’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak .
U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday called China ’s $ 2 billion pledge to fight the pandemic “ paltry ” .
“ The questioning around globalization is going to come to the fore again , simply because now we ’re seeing this escalation in the trade war again , ” said Stephen Innes , chief global market strategist at AxiCorp .
Banks , oil and gas and miners were the biggest decliners among sector indices .
After rallying about 23 % since late March on a raft of global stimulus and , more recently , the easing of COVID-19 lockdowns , the FTSE 100 is now about 22 % below its January record high .
Premier Inn owner Whitbread Plc sank 13.4 % to a two - month low after it said it would seek 1.01 billion pounds ( $ 1.2 billion ) in fresh cash from shareholders to help weather the COVID-19 crisis .
Car dealer Inchcape Plc fell 7.7 % as it posted a slump in April revenue and said the global economic impact of the lockdowns would be felt until 2021 .
British low - cost airline easyJet climbed 4.4 % as it said it would restart a small number of flights on June 15 .
( Reporting by Shreyashi Sanyal , Devik Jain and Sagarika Jaisinghani in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Shounak Dasgupta and Pravin Char )

UPDATE 1-Abu Dhabi's Etihad considers future without A380, A350 jets - sources .
2020-05-21 16:55:42 +00:00 .
( Adds detail , background )
By Aziz
El Yaakoubi and Alexander Cornwell DUBAI , May 21 ( Reuters ) - Abu Dhabi ’s Etihad Airways is planning to lay off 1,200 employees as it considers permanently grounding its Airbus A380s and never operating the A350s it has ordered , company and industry sources said .
The state - owned carrier is reviewing its fleet strategy after the coronavirus pandemic hit travel demand , which Etihad ’s management expects will take years to recover , two sources said .
Etihad may retire its 10 A380s early with them potentially never returning to service after the virus outbreak grounded the airline ’s passenger flights in March , the sources said .
Etihad started flying the A380 relatively recently , taking delivery of its first aircraft in 2014 and its most recent one in 2017 .
The Airbus superjumbo had come into commercial service in 2007 .
Airlines around the world have been idling A380s because of the impact of the coronavirus crisis on air travel .
On Wednesday , Air France said it was retiring its nine A380s and sources said Emirates was in talks to reduce remaining deliveries of the aircraft .
Etihad is also considering whether to operate the A350 - 1000 , the sources said .
They said the airline was expected to make a decision on the fate of the two Airbus wide - bodies soon .
Etihad did not respond to a request for comment .
An Airbus spokesman told Reuters the European planemaker did not comment on customer fleet strategies but said it was in contact with all of its customers .
Etihad cancelled orders for 42 A350 jets last year , leaving the airline with 20 A350 - 100s as part of a broad restructuring after as its global ambitions unravelled .
The airline then later in 2019 delayed the entry into service of five A350 - 1000s and these do not currently feature on its fleet list on its website .
Etihad ’s fleet consists of Airbus A320 and A380s , and Boeing 787 and 777 jets .
Etihad has already abandoned ambitions to become a major international hub airline like rival Gulf carriers Emirates and Qatar Airways .
It has focused instead on becoming a mid - sized carrier operating direct flights .
Etihad is planning to lay off 1,200 employees in a current round of redundancies , the sources said , adding that further job cuts were possible .
The airline , which had 20,530 employees as of August 2019 , has already laid off hundreds of staff , saying there had been job cuts across several departments , Reuters reported on Tuesday .
Reporting by Aziz El Yaakoubi and Alexander Cornwell .
Editing by Jane Merriman

Michigan Governor Whitmer further opens state economy ahead of Trump visit .
2020-05-21 16:04:26 +00:00 .
DETROIT ( Reuters ) - Michigan ’s governor announced more steps to re - open the state ’s economy on Thursday , offering timelines for the resumption of some businesses and allowing some social gatherings as long as guidelines to curb the spread of the coronavirus are observed .
Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer addresses the media about the flooding along the Tittabawassee River , after several dams breached , in downtown Midland , Michigan , U.S. , May 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Rebecca Cook Governor Gretchen Whitmer made the announcement ahead of a trip by President Donald Trump to a Ford Motor Co plant in Michigan making ventilators for patients with COVID-19 , the disease caused by the novel coronavirus .
In a news briefing on Thursday morning , Whitmer said effective immediately people could meet in groups of up to 10 , so long as they observed social distancing restrictions .
Retail stores and auto showrooms can resume operations by appointment beginning on May 26 , while increased veterinarian , dental , and medical services will be allowed starting May 29 .
“ We ’ve taken significant steps forward to re - engage our economy safely and responsibly over the past few weeks .
Now we are going to take some time to ensure that these new measures are working , ” Whitmer said .
She said that she would likely announce another short - term extension of her broader stay - at - home order , which is set to run through May 28 .
The move follows the announcement on Monday of a partial reopening in dozens of northern counties starting Friday in an acknowledgement that the outbreak has had less impact on those areas .
Trump , a Republican who is basing his re - election bid in part on a strong economy , has been critical of Whitmer and other Democratic governors over the pace of their re - openings .
Michigan is one of the states harder hit by the virus and has had some of the most restrictive stay - at - home orders in the country .
While polls show she remains popular in Michigan , Whitmer has faced mainstream backlash against the orders , with a growing number of local officials and business leaders arguing the restrictions have outlived their usefulness .
In April , hundreds of protesters , some armed , gathered at the state Capitol in Lansing to demonstrate against the orders .
On Wednesday , Trump threatened to withhold funding from Michigan over its plan for expanded mail - in voting , saying without evidence it could lead to voter fraud .
He seemed to back away from the threat later .
Trump won Michigan narrowly in 2016 , and it is expected to be a battleground state again in November .
Whitmer is frequently cited as a potential running mate for the likely Democratic presidential nominee , Joe Biden .
Reporting by Michael Martina and Ben Klayman ; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and
Sonya Hepinstall

Manchester United revenues suffer as players sidelined .
2020-05-21 14:31:23 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Manchester United ( MANU.N ) withdrew its annual financial targets and estimated it lost around 23 million pounds ( $ 28 million ) in revenue in the third quarter as the coronavirus crisis brought the Premier League and European soccer competitions to a halt .
FILE PHOTO :
Soccer Football - Premier League - Manchester United v Burnley - Old Trafford , Manchester , Britain - January 22 , 2020
General view outside the stadium before the match REUTERS /
Phil Noble Executive Vice Chairman Ed Woodward acknowledged the uncertainty brought upon by “ one of the most extraordinary testing periods in the 142 - year history of Manchester United , ” but said he was optimistic about the future amid hopes the Premier League could resume next month .
England ’s top clubs have returned to training this week with the aim of resuming matches behind closed doors in June , a sentiment echoed by Woodward on a post - earnings media call .
He pointed to the return of the German Bundesliga last weekend as a sign of “ strong , pent - up demand ” for live soccer on television .
Woodward said he hoped United could complete all of the first team ’s 2019 - 20 games by the end of August and start next season in time for it to end on schedule in May 2021 .
United , who are in “ rebuild ” mode as they chase a return to the lucrative UEFA Champions League competition , were in fifth place in the 20 - team Premier League when the action was halted .
Broadcasting revenue more than halved in the third quarter ended March 31 , causing total revenue to slide 19 % to 123.7 million pounds .
Net debt ballooned by more than 42 % to 429 million pounds and the club , controlled by the American Glazer family , made a net loss of 22.8 million pounds once the cost of financing that burden was taken into account .
United expect to have to sacrifice around 20 million pounds in broadcast revenues over the full season , its slice of a rebate the Premier League will have to offer for delays to staging matches caused by the crisis .
United have not played since they beat LASK Linz 5 - 0 behind closed doors in the Europa League in Austria on March 12 .
Their last match at their Old Trafford home was a 2 - 0 win over local rivals Manchester City in the Premier League on March 8 .
Reporting by Yadarisa Shabong and Shashwat Awasthi in Bengaluru and Simon Evans in Manchester ; editing by Jason Neely and Keith Weir

Europeans ask: Will life still be a beach with social distancing? .
2020-05-20 18:26:46 +00:00 .
SCHEVENINGEN , Netherlands ( Reuters ) - A handful of beach bars at the Dutch coast unpacked their sun beds and started serving cocktails to customers as temperatures soared this week , only for authorities to warn them to stop until June 1 or face steep fines .
People sunbath on a beach , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , in 's - Gravenzande , Netherlands , May 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Piroschka van de Wouw Frustrated owners and beachgoers fumed , but returned to take - away coffee and packed lunches .
In several European countries , confusion about the rules threatens to spoil the joy of once again being able to spend a day at the beach .
“ It ’s confusing because some cities allowed people to rent beach beds and others prohibited it .
So it is difficult to know what you can and can not do , ” said Bartjan van den Beukel , who works at beach club Breez , near The Hague .
After nearly 10 weeks of lockdown , a complex list of dos and don’ts will go into effect at the start of June , when public holidays could see a surge in visitors to the seaside .
Besides trying to keep customers 1.5 meters apart , Dutch restaurants , including those on the beach , will only be allowed to accept online table reservations and will then have to check clients for COVID-19 symptoms .
“ You can ask people how they feel , but we ’re not doctors , so for us its not easy to see if someone is sick or not , ” he said , “ And how many times do they need to cough or sneeze before you say : ‘ you need to leave ’ ? ”
Dutch beaches remained open during the country ’s “ smart ” lockdown .
Restaurants were allowed to serve takeaway , but not to rent out beach beds or allow customers inside .
NO SWIMMING
In Spain by contrast , beaches were mostly closed during lockdown but now in most areas people are allowed to walk and run , but not to swim or sunbathe .
Barcelona reopened beaches on Wednesday and attracted huge crowds , who widely ignored the swimming and sunbathing bans .
In the smallest Canary and Balearic Islands people can sunbathe and swim , but must apply social distancing .
In Portugal , where temperatures neared 30 degrees Celsius over the weekend , some people tried to go for a swim before it was officially allowed from May 18 and were told off by authorities .
The confusion seems to have been caused after Prime Minister Antonio Costa announced on Friday beaches would open on June 6 but then a government decree published on May 17 stated people could go to the beach from the beginning of this week .
Groups will in any case have to stay 1.5 metres apart , sun beds may only be booked for the morning or afternoon , and beach sports of two people or more will not be allowed .
“ We have clients who have been coming here for more than 30 years and they are used to book the sun beds … the half day rule wo n’t be easy , ” Claudio Vieira , who manages a business at a beach in the southern Algarve region , told SIC television .
A new app is supposed to help avoid crowding by warning which bathing spots are full , but some municipalities have already expressed doubts it will be effective .
Additional reporting by Inti Landauro in Madrid , Paola Luelmo in Grand Canaria and Catarina Demony in Lisbon ; Writing by Anthony Deutsch ;
Editing by Alexandra Hudson

Rwanda's most-wanted genocide suspect appears before French court .
2020-05-20 17:08:06 +00:00 .
PARIS / THE HAGUE ( Reuters ) - Felicien Kabuga , accused of funding the 1994 Rwandan genocide , appeared before a French court on Wednesday , four days after his arrest following a quarter of a century on the run .
Eric Emeraux , head of the Gendarmerie 's Central Office for Combating Crimes Against Humanity , Genocides and War Crimes ( OCLCH ) , diplays documents with a wanted poster depicting a photograph of Felicien Kabuga during an interview with Reuters at his office , about the arrest of Rwandan genocide fugitive suspect Felicien Kabuga , in Paris , France , May 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Benoit
Tessier
In his first appearance in public in more than two decades , the octogenarian was brought into the courtroom in a wheelchair , dressed in jeans and a blue jumper and wearing a face mask .
Kabuga has been indicted by U.N. prosecutors for genocide and incitement to commit genocide , among other charges .
He is accused of bankrolling and arming the ethnic Hutu militias which killed 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus over 100 days .
Rwanda ’s most wanted fugitive , he was arrested on Saturday in a Paris suburb .
The court ’s three judges , who are due to decide whether to transfer Kabuga to the U.N. tribunal - adjourned the hearing to May 27 .
Kabuga ’s lawyers said he wanted a trial in France and accused the country ’s chief public prosecutor of trying to rush the legal process .
“ Mr Kabuga is an old man , he ’s tired and sick , ” lawyer Laurent Bayon told the judges .
“ The prosecutor wants to be rid of Mr Kabuga . ”
The U.N. tribunal ’s prosecutor , Serge Brammertz , said a request had already been launched for Kabuga ’s transfer into U.N. custody and that he could initially be held in The Hague rather than Africa because of coronavirus travel restrictions .
It “ is definitely an option ” for a first legal phase to be conducted in The Hague , Brammertz told Reuters .
MONEY AND WEAPONS
Two policeman stood behind Kabuga , whose voice was weak but audible as he confirmed through an interpreter his identity and parents names .
He gave his date of birth as March 1 , 1933 .
Kabuga ’s arrest marked the end of a more than two - decade long hunt that spanned Africa and Europe .
The one - time tea and coffee tycoon is accused of being a main financier of the genocide , paying for the militias that carried out the massacres , as well as importing huge numbers of machetes , according to the UN tribunal ’s indictment .
He also co - owned a media group whose radio station broadcast anti - Tutsi messages that fanned the ethnic hatred .
The United States had placed a $ 5 million bounty on his head .
Kabuga was the most high - profile fugitive of the U.N. tribunal which tried Rwanda genocide suspects in Arusha , Tanzania , known as the ICTR .
It closed five years ago , but a successor body still operates there and in the Netherlands .
The ICTR was at the centre of efforts to set new standards in international justice , though incumbent Rwandan President Paul Kagame said it was too slow and too inefficient .
Other critics said it was too focused on prosecuting Hutus and not Kagame ’s Tutsi - led Rwandan Patriotic Front .
Kabuga ’s defence team said they would later seek his release on bail .
Exiting the courtroom , Kabuga raised his fist as several relatives including one son voiced encouragement .
Reporting by John Irish and Tangi Salaun ; writing by Richard Lough ;
editing by Philippa Fletcher

Lesotho's new PM sworn in but faces task of uniting fractious elite .
2020-05-20 08:59:24 +00:00 .
MASERU ( Reuters ) -
Moeketsi Majoro was sworn in as Lesotho ’s new prime minister on Wednesday , a day after his predecessor resigned under pressure over a scandal involving the killing of his wife .
Majoro , who was previously finance minister , took the oath at the king ’s palace in front of dignitaries .
He will stay in charge until scheduled elections in June 2022 .
It was only the third time that power has changed hands peacefully in Lesotho ’s history since independence from Britain in 1966 , a period marked by coups and waves of unrest .
Veteran politician Thomas Thabane , 80 , bowed to calls to resign on Tuesday , three months after police named him and his current wife Maesaiah as suspects in the murder of his former spouse Lipolelo in a case that plunged the mountain kingdom into a political crisis .
“ I have inadvertently erred in several ways , ” Thabane said in his handover speech .
“ I ask you that you forgive me for my mistakes . ”
Lipolelo Thabane was shot dead in her car in June 2017 two days before her husband ’s inauguration as leader of the country of about two million people .
He married Maesaiah two months later .
Maesaiah , 43 , has been charged with murder , while Thomas Thabane argued in court in February that he has immunity due to his office .
Both deny any wrongdoing .
Thabane ’s own All Basotho Convention ( ABC ) party , opposition figures and South African mediators had leant on him to quit , but he had resisted , supported by an inner circle of loyalists .
In comments after the swearing - in , the new prime minister promised to make tackling COVID-19 - Lesotho has recorded one case so far - poverty and unemployment his main priorities .
Majoro , a former IMF director , must also unite a fractious political elite at a volatile time .
Lesotho ’s upheavals sometimes turn violent , and frequently suck in South Africa , whose central mountains surround its tiny neighbour .
“ It is going to be very difficult for ( Majoro) ... to unify the ABC because its members are still disgruntled and are going to fight , ” independent analyst Lefu Thaela said .
Majoro , who has also served as planning minister and a university economics lecturer , is seen as a technocrat better at analysing economic data than soothing tensions between warring political factions .
“ He has been part of the warring sides himself , ” Limpho Tau , leader of the Democratic Congress party , told Reuters .
“ It is not going to be easy to satisfy everyone . ”
Writing by Tim Cocks ;
editing by John Stonestreet , Editing by Angus MacSwan

Colombia coronavirus quarantine extended through end of May .
2020-05-20 00:23:26 +00:00 .
BOGOTA ( Reuters ) - Colombia ’s mandatory quarantine has been extended by a further week until May 31 , President Ivan Duque said on Tuesday , the fourth extension to a lockdown intended to curb the spread of the coronavirus .
FILE PHOTO :
Colombia 's President Ivan Duque holds a news conference at the Tecnologico de Moneterrey in Mexico City , Mexico March 10 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Luisa Gonzalez / File Photo
The Andean country has nearly 17,000 confirmed cases of coronavirus and more than 600 deaths .
It began the quarantine in late March .
A health state of emergency will be extended until Aug. 31 , Duque added .
“ The obligatory preventative isolation , exactly as we are having it now , will be extended until May 31 , ” Duque said during a television broadcast .
“ We will have an additional week , which is really important because in that week we will also be taking fundamental measures . ”
Sectors like retail and non - COVID - related medical care can begin normalizing gradually once quarantine ends , Duque said .
“ Everyone who does n’t have to leave home should stay home , ” he said .
Domestic and international flights will not resume yet , nor will inter - municipal travel .
Schools and universities will remain closed through July , and people 70 years and older must stay at home through June , Duque said .
Colombia ’s economy has been battered by the twin crises of COVID-19 and low global oil prices .
Duque ’s government has earmarked billions of dollars in business and welfare aid , but help has failed to reach many and businesses say reopening permissions are slow .
The government has loosened some restrictions but also hardened rules in some places .
Construction , manufacturing and other sectors are restarting with safety protocols , while other businesses can operate via deliveries and municipalities without coronavirus can reopen .
But the government has toughened restrictions in Amazonas province and increased the military presence on the border with Brazil , which has the world ’s third - highest number of infections .
A dozen areas of Bogota with high infection rates have special restrictions .
Colombia ’s economy expanded 1.1 % in the first quarter , likely its last positive figure before a recession .
The finance ministry predicts a contraction of 5.5 % this year .
Reporting by Nelson Bocanegra and Julia Symmes Cobb ;
Editing by Sandra Maler and Leslie Adler

US STOCKS-S&P stumbles as Moderna sinks on report questioning trial results .
2020-05-19 20:08:57 +00:00 .
( For a live blog on the U.S. stock market , click or type LIVE/ in a news window )
* Walmart posts strong Q1 results but gains fade * Home Depot drops after results miss estimates
* Moderna drops after report questions trial data ( Updates to market close )
By Chuck Mikolajczak NEW YORK , May 19 ( Reuters ) -
The SP 500 closed lower on Tuesday , as investors focused on a report questioning Moderna ’s recent coronavirus vaccine early - stage trial results , wiping out modest gains on the benchmark index in the last hour of trading .
Major averages fell to session lows in the wake of a report from STAT News that questioned the validity of the results of Moderna ’s vaccine trial , which the company had announced Monday .
Moderna shares plunged about 10 % after the report .
“ The market is keen on health - care news much more than it is on economic data , ” said Art Hogan , chief market strategist at National Securities in New York .
“ We are largely baking in the second quarter being down significantly – GDP growth rates , earnings , economic data – but what we do n’t know , what will drive markets will be incrementally good news on the healthcare front . ”
Stocks had initially edged higher as investors attempted to glean information from a mixed bag of results from major retailers .
Home improvement chain Home Depot fell after it missed quarterly profit estimates due to higher costs , while department store operator Kohl ’s Corp tumbled after reporting a bigger - than - expected loss .
Walmart Inc , on the other hand , exceeded expectations for quarterly revenue and earnings as online sales soared as consumers stockpiled essentials in response to coronavirus lockdowns .
Still , its shares finished down after rising as much as 3.4 % earlier .
“ Everyone wants to take every retailer ’s report of being indicative of something , but at the same time staying open and doing stuff is good , it costs to do that , ” said Willie Delwiche , investment strategist at Baird in Milwaukee .
Advance Auto Parts climbed after the company said same - store sales improved significantly at the start of the second quarter , helping to lift the SP retailing index .
Trillions of dollars in fiscal and monetary stimulus have helped the SP 500 rebound nearly 35 % from its March 23 intraday low .
While the benchmark index is now less than 13 % below its Feb. 19 closing record , gains have largely slowed in May on uncertainty over truly halting the spread of the coronavirus and allowing business to resume and rising U.S.-China tensions .
The benchmark index surged more than 3 % on Monday , boosted by Moderna ’s promising early - stage data for a COVID-19 vaccine and Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell ’s pledge over the weekend to support the economy as needed until the crisis has passed .
Powell , in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday , said the central bank was continuing to consider ways to accommodate additional borrowers , and that Congress should consider anything to keep people out of insolvency .
Unofficially , the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1.56 % to end at 24,213.76 points , while the SP 500 lost 1.03 % , to 2,923.48 .
The Nasdaq Composite dropped 0.52 % , to 9,186.97 .
2,923.48 .
The Nasdaq Composite dropped 0.52 % , to 9,186.97 .
( Reporting by Chuck Mikolajczak ; Editing by Leslie Adler ) ( c )
Copyright Thomson Reuters 2020 .
Click For Restrictions - here ) )

Fiat Chrysler's loan request raises doubts about 5.5 euro billion dividend .
2020-05-19 16:51:58 +00:00 .
ROME / MILAN ( Reuters ) - Italy could look into Fiat Chrysler ’s ( FCHA.MI ) planned 5.5 billion euro ( $ 6 billion ) payout as part of its merger with Peugeot after the Italian - American carmaker asked for a 6.3 billion euro state - backed loan , a senior government source said .
FILE PHOTO - New Fiat 500 electric cars are displayed at a Fiat Chrysler event held to unveil its first electric model , in Milan , Italy , March 4 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Flavio Lo Scalzo
The possible payment of such a large dividend at a time the coronavirus crisis has left cash - starved manufacturers pushing for government financial support has sparked criticism within the ruling coalition .
“ In the talks with the group , the special dividend is not an item being discussed at the moment .
But , if you ask me whether the government will set no conditions in the near future , I ’d reply that it ’s too early to say , ” the government source told Reuters on Tuesday .
However , the dividend is a central element affecting the overall value of the complicated 50 - 50 merger deal and some analysts say it could still unravel if different conditions were imposed .
Fiat Chrysler ( FCA ) said last week its Italian division was working with the government and lender Intesa Sanpaolo ( ISP.MI ) to obtain 80 % state guarantees on a 6.3 billion euro three - year loan facility to help weather the pandemic .
The loan would be part of more than 400 billion euros Italy is making available to businesses .
To qualify , companies must agree not to pay dividends this year .
Taking the loan would not legally bar FCA from distributing the extraordinary dividend as the payment is not expected until 2021 and would be made by its parent company Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV in the Netherlands .
But the issue has aroused opposition among some members of the ruling coalition of the centre - left Democratic Party and the anti - establishment 5 Star Movement .
“ Most of us oppose the payment of the maxi - dividend by FCA , ” one prominent 5 Star source told Reuters , adding that some party members were also campaigning to extend the ban on dividend payments in the loan scheme until the end of 2021 .
Former industry minister Carlo Calenda , who is now in opposition , also said on Twitter that FCA would not need the state - backed loan if the special dividend were not paid .
Economy Minister Roberto Gualtieri , who has said he backs the merger with PSA , said on Monday that FCA had to promise more investments in Italy and to avoid moving its factories outside the country if it wanted to apply for a state - backed loan .
“ The government aims to preserve and strengthen Fiat ’s roots in Italy , as the automotive group is about to carry out its challenging merger with PSA ” , he said .
FCA and Peugeot ’s owner PSA ( PEUP.PA ) last week scrapped ordinary dividend payouts on 2019 results , worth 1.1 billion euros for each company .
As part of the binding merger agreement , FCA is also due to pay its shareholders the special dividend worth 5.5 billion euros just before it closes the deal with PSA , which is expected to happen in the first quarter next year .
Additional reporting by Francesca Piscioneri and Giselda Vagnoni in Rome ; Writing by Giulio Piovaccari ;
Editing by Andrew Cawthorne and David Clarke

UPDATE 2-Brexit risks and talk of negative rates limit the pound's recovery .
2020-05-19 14:55:52 +00:00 .
* Graphic : World FX rates in 2020 tmsnrt.rs/2egbfVh
* Graphic : Trade - weighted sterling since Brexit vote tmsnrt.rs/2hwV9Hv ( Updates prices , adds comment and volatility )
By Elizabeth Howcroft LONDON , May 19 ( Reuters )
- The pound was up 0.5 % against the dollar on Tuesday , holding on to gains from overnight trading , and rose versus the euro - a small recovery relative to its recent seven - week lows .
Positive signs from a coronavirus antibody trial saw safe - haven currencies such as the dollar fall as markets rallied .
But analysts said the pound did not fully join this relief rally , as it remains held down by Brexit - related risks and some speculation about negative rates .
The pound ’s overnight strengthening was small compared with its recent downward trajectory .
It is the worst performing G10 currency so far this month .
“ Apart from all the corona problems , concerns about Brexit have arisen again , ” said Thu Lan Nguyen , FX strategist at Commerzbank .
“ I think this will lead to continued underperformance of the pound in the next couple of weeks certainly , up until the EU Summit , ” she said .
Officials from both sides say that little progress has been made in Brexit negotiations .
Britain set out plans for a post - Brexit tariff system on Tuesday .
The pound had hit a seven - week low against the euro on Monday at 89.60 pence , but strengthened to as much as 89.19 pence at around 0630 GMT .
It weakened during the day before starting to strengthen around 1220 GMT and was last at 89.325 , up around 0.2 % since New York ’s close .
Against the dollar , the pound had slipped below $ 1.21 on Monday .
It hit a low of $ 1.2185 around 0320 GMT on Tuesday before recovering to as much as $ 1.2268 in early London trading .
It was last at $ 1.2247 .
Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a note to clients that implied volatility and risk reversal pointed to more downside risks .
“ GBP implied volatility has lagged during the large reset lower of FX volatility and it is now at a premium vs the EUR and JPY ( but still lower than in 2016 and 2019 in absolute terms ) , ” they said .
Sterling - dollar implied volatility gauges with a one - month maturity edged down slightly on Tuesday , still holding near three - week highs .
NEGATIVE RATES ?
The market has started to price in the possibility of negative interest rates .
A Bank of England rate - setter , Silvana Tenreyro , said on Monday that the central bank has not ruled out negative interest rates .
This added to speculation after the bank ’s chief economist , Andy Haldane , said negative rates were being looked at more urgently .
But many analysts think the bank is unlikely to bring in negative rates and is more likely to add to its quantitative easing programme .
Commerzbank ’s Nguyen said that if the bank introduced negative rates by a 25 basis points cut , the effect on the pound would be limited , whereas a cutting cycle would have more impact .
( Reporting by Elizabeth Howcroft ;
Editing by Larry King , Giles Elgood and Alex Richardson )

UPDATE 2-Abu Dhabi to raise $3 billion with April bonds re-opening .
2020-05-19 14:00:08 +00:00 .
( Adds size , final price guidance )
By Davide Barbuscia and Yousef Saba DUBAI , May 19 ( Reuters ) -
Abu Dhabi is set to raise $ 3 billion with a tap of dollar bonds issued last month , a document showed , as governments in the Gulf seek extra cash amid the coronavirus pandemic and a slump in oil prices .
Oil - rich Abu Dhabi issued in April $ 7 billion in bonds due in 2025 , 2030 and 2050 , just after a jumbo $ 10 billion bond sale by Qatar .
Considered among the best credits in the region , Abu Dhabi , the capital of the United Arab Emirates , received around $ 45 billion in orders for the April deal .
It has now gone back to the markets with a bond tap , where an existing transaction is reopened for subscription using the same documentation as before .
It is set to raise $ 3 billion more , according to a document issued by one of the banks leading the deal and seen by Reuters .
The deal has attracted over $ 20 billion in orders .
The emirate is offering around 140 basis points over U.S. Treasuries for bonds due in 2025 , around 155 bps over the same benchmark for a tranche due in 2030 , and around 3.3 % for the notes due in 2050 , according to the document .
“ As expected , the pricing is in line with the earlier tranche , ” a Dubai - based fixed income strategist said .
“ The interesting point to note is there is no skew in demand towards the 30 - year bonds , unlike in April , when investors clearly preferred the long end .
We believe high dollar price might one of the reasons for this , ” he said .
The proceeds of the sale , which will close later on Tuesday , will be used for “ general budgetary purposes , ” a separate bank document showed .
A spokesman at Abu Dhabi ’s department of finance did not respond to a request for comment .
BNP Paribas , First Abu Dhabi Bank , JPMorgan and Standard Chartered were hired to arrange the deal .
( Reporting by Davide Barbuscia and Yousef Saba ;
editing by Himani Sarkar , Sherry Jacob - Phillips , Larry King )

South Africa's Growthpoint provides rent relief to nearly 1,500 small firms .
2020-05-19 09:11:47 +00:00 .
JOHANNESBURG ( Reuters ) - South Africa ’s Growthpoint Properties said on Monday it had provided rent relief to 1,494 small , medium and micro enterprises ( SMMEs ) hit by a lockdown to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic .
Dusk falls in the popular Waterfront district in Cape Town , South Africa , shortly before President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a nationwide lockdown to combat the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , March 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Mike Hutchings President Cyril Ramaphosa imposed a 21 - day lockdown from March 26 , that was later extended to the end of April .
This prompted property owners and tenants to work together , under government guidelines , to defer rent payments and find other solutions that allow shops , businesses and landlords to ride out the shutdown , which was partially lifted on May 1 .
A halt in payments , however , has raised questions over whether landlords will be able to meet their own debt commitments .
Growthpoint - which owns the VA Waterfront , home to several corporate head offices , industries , hotels , shops and restaurants - is still finalising rent relief for medium , large and listed tenants for April 2020 , it said in a statement .
In April , excluding the VA , it provided 99.2 million rand ( $ 5.38 million ) of rent relief for South African retail , office , industrial and healthcare tenants , while in May it provided 100.8 million rand in relief .
At the VA , rent discounts totalling 19 million rand were granted for April and about 7 million rand for May , mainly to retailers .
Growthpoint said it had rejected a proposal from the top five fashion retailers - TFG , Truworths , Mr Price Group , Woolworths and Pepkor - to pay only 20 % of rates and rental for April 2020 .
Together with the Property Industry Group , Growthpoint has approached the government to mediate , it added .
Growthpoint , which also owns Brooklyn Mall in Pretoria , said it had secured a 750 million rand bank loan for three years , and was in the final stages of negotiating a further 900 million rand , also for three years .
After non - food department chain operator Edcon entered business rescue , a form of bankruptcy protection , late in April , Growthpoint is investigating options to sub - divide space occupied by Edcon ’s Edgars stores and introduce a second supermarket anchor tenant , where possible , it said .
“ In the interim , the entire industry has received an offer from the business rescue practitioner to pay only turnover rental for the next few months , which we are evaluating , ” it added , referring to rent calculated on a tenant ’s retail sales .
Growthpoint ’s exposure to Edcon , after the sale of stationery retailer CNA , is 88,000 square meters .
Landlords hurt by the demise in 2017 of South Africa ’s oldest department chain , Stuttafords , have been looking at ways to minimise exposure to Edcon to prevent huge losses in income .
( $ 1 = 18.4275 rand )
Reporting by Nqobile Dludla ;
Editing by Mark Potter

UK announces new post-Brexit global tariff regime .
2020-05-19 06:53:14 +00:00 .
An hybrid flag depicting the EU and the British flags is seen during a debate on the last EU summit and Brexit at the European Parliament in Strasbourg , France , October 22 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Vincent Kessler / Files LONDON ( Reuters ) -
The United Kingdom on Tuesday announced a new post - Brexit tariff regime to replace the European Union ’s external tariff , maintaining a 10 % tariff on cars but cutting levies on tens of billions of dollars of supply chain imports .
After decades outsourcing its trade policy to the European Union , Britain is embarking on negotiating free trade agreements with countries around the world and aims to have deals in place covering 80 % of British trade within three years .
The British government said the new regime , known as UK Global Tariff ( UKGT ) , would be simpler and cheaper than the EU ’s Common External Tariff .
It will apply to countries with which it has no agreement and will remove all tariffs below 2 % .
“ Our new Global Tariff will benefit UK consumers and households by cutting red tape and reducing the cost of thousands of everyday products , ” International Trade Secretary Liz Truss said .
The UKGT will be set in pounds and will be legislated for later in the year and will come into force from January 2021 .
Under the new regime tariffs would be eliminated on a wide range of products : 60 % of trade will come into the UK tariff free on WTO terms or through existing preferential access , the government said .
The UK will maintain tariffs on a number of products backing UK industries such as agriculture , automotive and fishing .
It will remove tariffs on 30 billion pounds ( $ 37 billion ) worth of imports entering UK supply chains such as screws and bolts .
The government said it would also remove tariffs on products which support energy efficiency such as thermostats and LED lamps , and will introduce a temporary zero tariff rate on products being use to fight the COVID-19 outbreak such as personal protective equipment .
Editing by Guy Faulconbridge

Bharti Airtel shares rise 10%; data demand, tariff hikes help .
2020-05-19 06:00:58 +00:00 .
A girl checks her mobile phone as she walks past the Bharti Airtel office building in Gurugram , previously known as Gurgaon , on the outskirts of New Delhi , India April 21 , 2016 .
REUTERS / Adnan Abidi / File Photo BENGALURU ( Reuters ) - Shares of Bharti Airtel Ltd ( BRTI.NS ) surged 10 % to a record high on Tuesday , as customers upgraded their data and calling plans and the Indian telecom operator raised mobile tariffs , helping boost average revenue per user .
The company ’s average revenue per user , a key metric for the telecom sector , rose 25 % to 154 rupees at its India mobile services business during the quarter ended March 31 .
“ Bharti Airtel ’s strong data subscriber additions despite sharp tariff hikes reflects consumer acceptance of higher tariffs , ” Jefferies said in a note .
“ Moreover , its ability to add data subscribers should also support market share gains . ”
Airtel said it added 12.5 million 4 G subscribers in the March quarter .
Indian telcos raised calling and data plan prices in the last few months after the country ’s Supreme Court upheld a demand by the telecoms department that wireless carriers pay 920 billion Indian rupees ( $ 12.11 billion ) in overdue levies and interest .
New - Delhi based Airtel said on Monday it set aside 56.42 billion rupees for one - time spectrum charges , resulting in a quarterly net loss of 52.37 billion rupees for the three months ended March 31 , compared with a profit of 1.07 billion rupees a year earlier .
Total revenue , however , rose 15 % to 237.23 billion rupees .
Indians found themselves confined to their homes during the last week of March due to a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus outbreak .
“ We continue to witness strong data traffic growth of about 74.1 % year - on - year , ” Chief Executive Officer Gopal Vittal said in a statement late on Monday .
Rival Reliance Jio Infocomm , controlled by billionaire Mukesh Ambani , reported a nearly three - fold rise in March quarter profit .
Reporting by Nallur Sethuraman and Philip George in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Shounak Dasgupta

Bharti Airtel reports fourth-quarter loss of 52.37 billion rupees .
2020-05-19 02:05:43 +00:00 .
A girl checks her mobile phone as she walks past the Bharti Airtel office building in Gurugram , previously known as Gurgaon , on the outskirts of New Delhi , India April 21 , 2016 .
REUTERS / Adnan Abidi / File Photo ( Reuters ) - Indian telecom operator Bharti Airtel Ltd ( BRTI.NS ) reported a loss for the fourth quarter on Monday , as it set aside 56.42 billion Indian rupees ( $ 744.90 million ) for one - time spectrum charges .
The company , India ’s third - largest telecom operator by subscribers , posted a loss of 52.37 billion rupees for the three months ended March 31 , compared with a profit of 1.07 billion rupees a year earlier .
However , the telco ’s quarterly average revenue per user at its India mobile services business rose 25 % from a year earlier to 154 rupees .
Indian telecom firms raised tariffs late last year after the Supreme Court upheld a demand by India ’s telecoms department that wireless carriers pay 920 billion Indian rupees ( $ 12.11 billion ) in overdue levies and interest .
The company said total revenue rose 15 % to 237.23 billion rupees for the quarter ended March 31 .
Bharti Airtel added it had seen an increase in data traffic during the COVID-19 pandemic , which prompted India ’s government to impose a strict lockdown since late March .
Reporting by Philip George in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Chris Reese and Tom Brown

Mexico gears up to reopen economy despite coronavirus onslaught .
2020-05-19 00:02:47 +00:00 .
MEXICO CITY ( Reuters ) - Mexico published guidelines for restarting operations in the automotive , mining and construction sectors on Monday , pushing ahead with reopening the economy despite a growing national toll from the COVID-19 pandemic .
Workers from U.S. auto parts maker Aptiv Plc arrive at the plant during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Ciudad Juarez , Mexico May 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Jose Luis Gonzalez
With Mexico ’s coronavirus death toll having surged past 5,000 , and known cases set to surpass 50,000 , officials are wrestling with how to restart key industries without triggering greater spread of the virus in the population .
The moves to loosen restrictions follow growing pressure from the United States to reopen factories that are vital to manufacturing supply chains of U.S.-based businesses , especially in the vast automotive sector .
Mexico ’s reopening plans have drawn criticism from some politicians worried that the still - rising pandemic tide in Latin America makes it unsafe to send more people to work .
Mexico ’s guidelines , published in a document overnight , require companies to submit to authorities health protocols for exiting the coronavirus lockdown .
Firms will then be told within 72 hours if they can resume operations .
General Motors Co ( GM.N ) , which operates one of its most important plants in central Mexico , told workers at the weekend to prepare to return there to work on Wednesday .
GM also told Mexican suppliers the company expected to comply quickly with the new regulations .
In the United States itself , the auto industry slowly returned to life on Monday , with some vehicle assembly plants reopening after the coronavirus lockdown while suppliers geared up to support a sector that accounts for about 6 % of U.S. economic activity .
Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who has said the reopening depends on the advice of health experts , said companies would have to answer an extensive questionnaire as part of efforts to protect workers .
“ Today they can start doing the paperwork so that companies in the construction , transport , and mining industries can start their activities , beginning with their health protocols , ” Lopez Obrador said in his morning daily conference .
The government said the guidelines will lead to a gradual reopening that follows a so - called traffic light system put in place by authorities .
Municipalities in the country with no coronavirus cases and bordering other municipalities with no cases could also presumably start lifting the lockdown on Monday .
On May 12 , Mexico reported a record number of deaths in a single day with 353 fatalities .
That grim news was followed on Friday by a reported 2,437 new coronavirus infections , a one - day record rise in cases since the start of the pandemic .
Critics , including some within Lopez Obrador ’s own ruling MORENA party , worry that restarting factories too soon could exacerbate the spread the of the virus before it has been brought under control .
Reporting by Sharay Angulo and Raul Cortes Fernandez ; Writing by Drazen Jorgic ;
Editing by Frank Jack Daniel and Tom Brown

India's capital reopens public transport as nearby Chinese-owned factory is hit by outbreak .
2020-05-18 18:56:29 +00:00 .
NEW DELHI ( Reuters ) - India ’s capital New Delhi and some other state governments ordered the re - opening of public transport on Monday in a further easing of a nearly two - month coronavirus shutdown .
A woman and her baby wait for a bus to take them to a railway station to board a train to their home state of Uttar Pradesh , after a limited reopening of India 's giant rail network following a nearly seven - week lockdown to slow the spreading of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Ghaziabad in the outskirts of New Delhi , India , May 18 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Adnan Abidi TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY
Under the new rules , buses , taxis and three - wheelers will return to the streets but with restrictions .
Buses will not carry more than 20 passengers , each of whom will be screened before boarding , Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said .
“ Corona will stay , and we will also survive , ” Kejriwal said , outlining the new guidelines for the city of 20 million people that has one of highest numbers of coronavirus cases in the country .
However , a factory of the Chinese smartphone maker OPPO near Delhi suspended operations after six workers tested positive for the coronavirus .
The factory had received government permission to resume limited production as part of a gradual relaxation of the shutdown that began on March 25 .
But when OPPO tested workers prior to the restart , six tested positive for COVID-19 , said Deep Chandra , senior official at the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority .
OPPO said in a statement that operations at the plant were suspended and it would only allow employees with negative test results to resume work .
The southern state of Karnataka , home to technology hub Bengaluru , also lifted some restrictions on the movement of trains , taxis and buses within the state .
Transportion from outside the state will remain suspended except for essential services .
Experts say that coronavirus cases will rise in coming weeks as India ’s lockdown is eased , and authorities have repeatedly told companies resuming operations to ensure that social distancing and other measures are taken to prevent infections .
MIGRANT WORKERS
India has seen a rapid rise in coronavirus infections in recent days , with confirmed cases at around 96,000 and more than 3,000 deaths , according to federal data .
On Sunday , Prime Minister Narendra Modi ’s government extended the nationwide lockdown to May 31 , but relaxed rules in areas with lower numbers of cases and allowed state governments to issue their own guidelines on some matters .
With the restrictions eased , some traffic poured back onto the roads of the capital , and hairdressers , beauty parlours , stationary shops , and butchers were among the small businesses reopening elsewhere in the country .
But schools , malls and other public places will remain mostly closed , and large gatherings are still prohibited .
Compounding the challenges for the country , hundreds of millions of migrant workers have been stranded across India for weeks , unable to return home after authorities banned all transport services in late March .
After a series of road and rail accidents , where dozens of workers died , authorities are now increasing efforts to help them home .
In the southern city of Chennai , construction worker M.D. Rustom queued along with hundreds of others for a bus and train trip back to the eastern state of Bihar , some 2,000 km away .
“ We do n’t have money to eat , ” he said .
“ It has been over 50 days , we just want to go back now .
Additional reporting by Derek Francis in Bengaluru and Sudarshan Varadhan in Chennai ;
Editing by Alexandra Ulmer , Sanjeev Miglani and Angus MacSwan

Israel Katz takes over as Israeli finance minister .
2020-05-18 11:32:09 +00:00 .
JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) - Israel Katz took over as Israel ’s finance minister on Monday as part of a new government , saying he planned to work towards helping the economy recover from the effects of the coronavirus while also promoting competition .
FILE PHOTO :
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu listens to Foreign Minister Israel Katz during the weekly cabinet meeting in Jerusalem October 27 , 2019 .
Gali Tibbon / Pool via REUTERS /
File
Photo Katz — who replaces Moshe Kahlon after a five - year stint — said he did n’t want to talk about specific economic policies , preferring to first meet the ministry ’s experts .
“ There will be a plan , ” he told a ceremony to mark the changing of the guard .
“ It will be accompanied by reforms , ... competition . ”
He has 90 days to pass a 2020 state budget .
Israel has been using a pro - rated version of the 2019 base budget .
The government has approved an emergency stimulus plan of some 100 billion shekels ( $ 28 billion ) to help businesses and the economy deal with the effects of the pandemic — pushing up the expected budget deficit this year to at least 10 % of gross domestic product.‮‮ ‬‬
After weeks of a lockdown , during which jobless claims soared , Israel has begun to ease restrictions .
Schools and shopping malls have reopened although restaurants remain closed .
Katz most recently served as foreign minister and previously was transportation minister , where in 2012 he signed an open skies deal with Europe that led to the entry of a host of low - cost carriers to Israel .
Israel ’s economy has performed well in recent years , although tax reductions and spending increases prior to the COVID-19 outbreak pushed the budget deficit higher , with an inability of the government to take any corrective steps due to a more than one - year political stalemate .
The political deadlock ended after some 500 days on Sunday when parliament approved Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ’s new unity government with former rival , centrist Blue and White leader Benny Gantz .
Katz is the first finance minister from Netanyahu ’s Likud party since 2013 , as the post went to coalition partners following elections in 2013 and 2015 .
“ Should Netanyahu provide strong political backing , this could be one important ingredient towards the success of Katz , ” said Bank Leumi chief economist Gil Bufman , adding that cooperation with the ministry ’s staff , effective dialogue with the business sector , unions and the central bank “ could be what economy needs right now ” .
He noted that this situation is reminiscent of a similar one in the early 2000s when the economy was in poor shape and Netanyahu , then a new finance minister , received strong backing from his prime minister , Ariel Sharon .
Reporting by Steven Scheer ,
editing by Ed Osmond

La Liga chief confirms clubs will resume group training from Monday .
2020-05-18 03:22:28 +00:00 .
BARCELONA ( Reuters ) - Spanish soccer has edged closer to returning after a long pause due to the COVID-19 pandemic after La Liga president Javier Tebas confirmed clubs in the top two divisions will begin training in groups of up to 10 players from Monday .
FILE PHOTO :
La Liga President Javier Tebas poses during an interview with Reuters at the La Liga headquarters in Madrid , Spain , October 2 , 2018 .
REUTERS / Paul Hanna / File Photo
The return to group training follows a government announcement on Saturday allowing sports teams to return to activity regardless of the status of the lockdown in their own region .
Previously , only teams from regions that were in phase one of the de - escalation of the national state of emergency would be able to return to training in groups .
The provinces of Madrid and Barcelona are currently in phase zero .
“ The confirmation of the return of group training will help to level up to standardise training , ” Tebas told Spanish television station Movistar on Sunday .
“ It ’s very important that all teams are training at the same level and we are grateful that is now the case . ”
All organised soccer in Spain has been indefinitely suspended since March 12 , with Tebas previously warning that clubs would lose up to one billion euros if the season was not allowed to be completed .
Clubs began individual training earlier this month and the next step will be for them to move to full training before resuming matches without spectators , which must first be approved by the government ’s department for health .
Tebas reaffirmed that he hopes matches will start up again from June 12 and said he was feeling even more optimistic about being able to complete the season after the Bundesliga became the first major European league to resume action this weekend .
“ I ’ve sent my congratulations to the Bundesliga because they have made a tremendous effort , ” he added .
“ We have worked very hard along side them in these last few months , exchanging protocols and ideas and I ’m very proud of the Bundesliga because it was n’t easy but they were the first and they are an example to follow . ”
Reporting by Richard Martin ;
Editing by Christian Radnedge

India extends lockdown to May 31, to relax rules in some areas .
2020-05-17 15:04:37 +00:00 .
NEW DELHI / AHMEDABAD ( Reuters ) - India on Sunday extended a nationwide lockdown to May 31 , as cases exceeded 90,000 and further clashes erupted between police and stranded migrants .
FILE PHOTO :
A man wearing a protective gear sprays disinfectant on a bus before passengers board , after the state government resumed public bus service on limited routes after nearly seven - week lockdown to slow the spreading of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Kolkata , India , May 14 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Rupak De Chowdhuri Schools , malls and other public places will remain mostly closed , though rules will be relaxed in areas with low numbers of cases , according to an order from the interior ministry .
“ New guidelines have permitted considerable relaxations in lockdown restrictions , ” the ministry said in a tweet accompanying the order .
Large gatherings are still prohibited , but outside of containment zones with high numbers of active cases “ all other activities will be permitted ” , it said , potentially allowing commerce and industry to reopen across much of the country .
Decisions on where to set containment zones would be decided by district authorities , the order said .
India has now reported more cases than China , where the virus first emerged late last year , although deaths at 2,872 remain much lower than China ’s 4,600 .
The death toll in the United States and some European countries is much higher .
India ’s lockdown , introduced on March 25 and extended several times , had been due to expire at midnight on Sunday .
The curbs have sparked a crisis for the hundreds of millions of Indians who rely on daily wages to survive .
With no work - and little public transport - many urban migrants attempting to return to their home villages have set out on gruelling journeys on foot or hitched rides in the back of trucks .
In Rajkot in the western state of Gujarat , more than 1,500 migrant workers blocked roads , damaged more than a dozen vehicles and threw stones at police on Sunday , after two special trains that were supposed to take them home got cancelled .
A police official in Shapar told Reuters police baton - charged the migrants to disperse them , with several officers injured in the process .
“ The workers had not gathered with the intention of violence .
Two or three trains were rescheduled , but the workers misunderstood that the trains had been cancelled , and resorted to violence , ” Balram Meena , Rajkot ’s superintendent of police , told local media .
“ We are identifying the people who were involved in the violence , ” Meena added .
At least 23 migrants were killed trying to reach their homes on Saturday when a truck crashed in northern India .
[ L4N2CY02D ] Sixteen migrant workers died on May 8 after being struck by a train .
They had fallen asleep on the tracks while walking back to their village after losing their jobs in a coronavirus lockdown , police said .
Reporting by Nigam Prusty ; writing by Alasdair Pal ; editing by Gareth Jones and Jason Neely

Greeks return to beaches in heatwave, but keep umbrellas apart .
2020-05-16 12:18:29 +00:00 .
ATHENS ( Reuters ) - Greeks flocked to the seaside on Saturday when more than 500 beaches reopened , as the country sought to walk the fine line between protecting people from COVID-19 while reviving the tourism sector that many depend on for their livelihoods .
People enjoy the sun during the official reopening of beaches to the public following the easing of measures against the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Athens , Greece , May 16 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Costas Baltas
For many in Greece , it was a first foray into a big public venue since the country began easing its lockdown earlier this month , and it also coincided with the first heatwave of the year .
Sun - seekers were required to respect distancing rules , which even stipulated how far umbrellas must be kept apart .
No more than 40 people were allowed per 1,000 square metres ( 10,750 sq ft ) , while umbrella poles had to be four metres ( 13 ft ) apart , with canopies no closer than one metre , according to a government - issued manual , complete with diagram .
At Alimos , a popular beach just south of Athens , people queued up from the early morning to nab their spot in the sunshine .
“ This is the best thing for us elderly ... to come and relax a bit after being locked in , ” Yannis Tentomas , who is in his 70s , said as he settled down under an umbrella .
He said he was complying with distancing rules , adding : “ It ’s like a gun to the head . ”
The manager of the beach , Nikos Venieris , said visitors were following the rules so far and he hoped they would continue to do so during the summer .
“ We ’re travelling an unknown road , and we do n’t know where it ’s going to end up , ” he added .
At a neighbouring beach a drone buzzed over sun - loungers , with loudspeakers urging people to keep safe distances from each other .
The lifting of the lockdown comes as countries around Europe and the world look to ease restrictions imposed to curb the pandemic , in an attempt to resurrect their economies .
‘ TURNING POINT ’
Greece has reported a fraction of the COVID-19 cases of neighbouring countries - more than 2,800 infections with 160 deaths .
From May 4 , it began a phased - in easing of the lockdown that had been in place since mid - March .
The country of 11 million people is one of the most dependent in Europe on tourism , which generates about a fifth of its economic output .
Following the reopening of Greek beaches , people will be permitted to attend Church Mass from May 17 , while archaeological sites , including the Acropolis , will reopen for visitors on May 18 .
From Monday , travel across mainland Greece and to Crete will be allowed , and from May 25 to the islands .
“ This is a crucial turning point in our efforts and we must succeed , ” said Nikos Hardalias , Greece ’s civil protection minister .
Tourism officials say they hope to welcome back foreign holidaymakers in July .
“ The message is that Greece is a very safe and hospitable country .
We invite them and are waiting for them to come , as long as they follow the rules , ” Alimos Mayor Andreas Kondylis said .
Greece ’s lockdown , plus the shutdown of much of the world , and most air travel , is likely to have a profound effect on a country only just starting to recover from a decade of financial turmoil and austerity .
Authorities expect anything between a 5 % and 10 % decline in economic output this year , before recovering in 2021 .
Reporting By Lefteris Papadimas ; Writing by Michele Kambas ;
Editing by Pravin Char

Fearing COVID-19, biggest university system makes fall term virtual .
2020-05-16 00:51:55 +00:00 .
LOS ANGELES ( Reuters ) -
As uncertainty about the spread of COVID-19 continues , the biggest university system in the United States decided this week to make fall term classes virtual , one of the first to do so , amid fears of a second wave of infections in the month ahead .
FILE PHOTO : San Diego State University campus is shown after the 23 Campuses of California State University system announced the fall 2020 semester will be online , affecting hundreds of thousands of students , during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in San Diego , California , U.S. , May 13 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Mike Blake California State University said almost all classes across its 23 university campuses would be online at least until the end of the fall term .
Programs such as the maritime academy , which holds classes aboard a training ship , may be among a handful of exceptions .
The Cal State university system serves 482,000 students .
“ As the largest four - year system of higher education in the country , while the spotlight is on us in terms of the decision , we were n’t hoping to influence anyone , ” said Cal State spokesperson Mike Uhlenkamp .
“ This is a decision that the chancellor and the campus presidents arrived at that we feel is in the best interests of our students and our employees . ”
Colleges and universities across the United States are grappling with similar decisions .
But it was the timing of Cal State ’s announcement that came to some as a surprise .
Other colleges and universities have said their decisions would come later in the summer .
As of Friday , the COVID-19 respiratory disease has infected more than 1.4 million Americans and killed at least 85,816 , according to a Reuters tally .
Efforts to stem the spread of the disease have shut schools and businesses nationwide , severely disrupted travel and devastated the economy .
Top U.S. infectious diseases expert Dr. Anthony Fauci has warned that a second wave of infections is a near certainty in the fall , which helped influence Cal State ’s decision , according to the chancellor ’s statement earlier this week .
“ Obviously , this is n’t what anyone had planned for , ” said Cal State ’s Uhlenkamp .
“ I want to make sure that people understand that we ’re not closed .
The campuses are not closed . ”
‘ SOCIAL ASPECT ’
Cal State universities moved to online classes on March 17 .
Students who could go home were asked to do so ; those who could n’t were permitted to remain on campus .
“ The social aspect is just completely gone , and I do very much miss it , ” said Ofer Barr , a 19 - year - old mechanical engineering student at California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo , who has moved back in with his parents in Los Angeles .
“ Here at home , the only thing I ’ve really found that lets me have any kind of social interaction is video games , ” Barr said .
Some students are now living with their families in different time zones , which can be a problem for classes with fixed times .
Some classes are hard to make virtual .
“ A lot of the art classes that I take are lab classes , they ’re studio classes , ” said William Hunter , a 21 - year - old studio arts major at San Francisco State University .
Moving online has been costly for the universities .
Earlier this week Cal State ’s board of trustees discussed an estimated $ 337 million in new costs and revenue losses for the spring term due to COVID-19 .
Reporting by Omar Younis ; Additional reporting and writing by Clare Baldwin ; editing by Bill Tarrant and
Cynthia Osterman

Spain quarantines overseas travellers as coronavirus death toll pace slows .
2020-05-15 18:47:46 +00:00 .
MADRID ( Reuters ) - Spain imposed a quarantine on incoming overseas passengers on Friday and added new travel restrictions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus as the country ’s daily death toll falls .
A passenger wearing a protective mask arrives at the Josep Tarradellas Barcelona - El Prat Airport , after the Spanish government announced that from May 15th all people entering the country will have to go under quarantine for two weeks , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Barcelona , Spain , May 15 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Nacho Doce From Friday , anyone arriving from abroad must spend two weeks self - quarantined at home or in a hotel .
Additionally , authorities extended existing restrictions to entry into Spain until June 15 and limited access to five airports and eight sea ports .
“ We decided to impose a quarantine to protect the public health , ” Health Minister Salvador Illa told reporters .
The few dozen passengers arriving from abroad at Spanish airports on Friday were tested for the virus , filled in a form with an address and phone number to allow medical tracking , and received a sheet of paper with instructions they must follow
“ We can not leave our homes for 14 days , only to go to the doctor or supermarket , we keep the security distance , always wear the mask when we go out , and that ’s about it , ” said Rosalie Gallego , who flew into Madrid from Havana .
The measures were imposed as new fatalities fell to 138 on Friday from more than 200 the day before .
The daily toll has been falling steadily since reaching a peak of 950 in early April .
Authorities say a strict lockdown and the travel restrictions have helped curb the contagion .
The number of cases rose on Friday to 230,183 , although the antibody testing of a sample of 60,000 people across Spain suggested that as many as 2.3 million have had the disease .
In recent days , authorities have started easing the rules at different rates on a regional basis .
In some areas , bars and restaurants have been allowed to open their terraces .
On Friday , the government lifted more restrictions in the smaller Balearic and Canary Islands , where weddings are allowed again as well as meetings of up to 15 people .
Some of the toughest restrictions in Madrid and Barcelona were eased and stores can now receive customers without appointments and museums can reopen with strictly limited capacity .
Stores of over 400 square meters are allowed to reopen all over the country , but also with limited capacity .
The lockdown phase - out has raised concerns that a second - wave outbreak could hit the country , and officials said those fears justified the quarantine on overseas travellers and the other restrictions on international travel .
However the move was not welcome in France , which said it would impose a quarantine on travellers from Spain .
Spanish Interior Minister Fernando Grandes Marlaska dismissed any tension with France .
“ There is no unease , these are measures taken within the European Union framework , ” he told radio station Cadena Ser .
Reporting by Elena Rodriguez Graham Keeley Michel Rose and Belen Carreño , writing by Inti Landauro ; Editing by Angus MacSwan and
Giles Elgood

Russian coronavirus cases above 260,000 as Moscow launches antibody tests .
2020-05-15 14:56:39 +00:00 .
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) - Russia ’s coronavirus case tally rose above 260,000 on Friday , cementing its status as the country with the second highest number of infections after the United States , as the city of Moscow began offering free antibody tests .
FILE PHOTO :
A medical specialist transports a person on a stretcher outside a hospital for patients infected with the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) on the outskirts of Moscow , Russia May 12 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Tatyana Makeyeva Russia ’s death toll rose by 113 overnight to reach 2,418 , Russia ’s coronavirus task force said , while the case tally jumped by 10,598 to hit 262,843 .
Moscow , the epicentre of Russia ’s outbreak , started mass antibody testing of residents on Friday to try to work out what portion of the population has already been infected and to identify infected people with no symptoms .
Sergei Sobyanin , Moscow ’s mayor , has promised over 200,000 such tests a day by the end of May , and said the programme will help him decide how and when to ease lockdown measures which have forced many businesses to close .
Though Russia was quick to seal off much of its border with China to try to reduce the spread of the virus it was slower to close down European travel .
Many richer Russians caught the virus during their annual ski holiday at the French ski resort of Courchevel in March , six Russians familiar with the matter told Reuters , three of whom fell ill after their own trip there .
One of them , Alexander Sorkin , a wealthy Russian restaurateur , flew back via Geneva on March 9 and was diagnosed with the virus several days later .
He said he knew of at least 60 others with virus symptoms after the trip .
“ A ski resort is the perfect environment for breeding coronavirus .
It ’s just the right temperature
and there is a huge social life , ” said Sorkin , who has now recovered .
Ellina Litvinchuk , who works for a Russian fashion brand and tested positive for the virus after such a holiday , said that most of the 30 people she travelled with to Courchevel in early March had also got sick on their return .
Musa Bazhayev , president of Russian Platinum , one of the world ’s major producers of the metal , and tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov were in Courchevel around the same time , three people who know them said .
Bazhayev was later taken to hospital with symptoms of the virus , three sources said .
Bazhayev ’s spokesman declined to comment .
A spokeswoman for Prokhorov said the businessman “ has not been and is not being treated for COVID-19 and has no indications of illness . ”
Petr Tushkevich , World Kitesurfing Champion , told Reuters he was taken to hospital with the virus after his return from Courchevel .
One Russian banker , who declined to be named , said he knew a number of people who returned on the March 9 flight from Geneva but then ignored an order from Moscow authorities to self - isolate for two weeks .
“ People were irresponsible , ” the executive said .
Sobyanin , Moscow ’s mayor , spoke about such Russians in an appearance on the TV Centre channel on March 25 .
“ Many people were in Courchevel and brought a suitcase full of viruses from there , ” Sobyanin complained .
Additional reporting by Gleb Stolyarov , Tom Balmforth and Anastasia Lyrchikova ;
Editing by Andrew Osborn

Norway likely to keep coronavirus travel curbs until August 20 .
2020-05-15 14:53:27 +00:00 .
OSLO ( Reuters ) - Norway will likely keep travel restrictions in place until Aug. 20 , Prime Minister Erna Solberg said on Friday , as it negotiates a path between restarting economic activity and preventing a new wave of coronavirus infections .
FILE PHOTO :
Norway 's Prime Minister Erna Solberg speaks during a news conference on reopening society after the coronavirus disease ( Covid-19 ) outbreak , in Oslo , Norway May 7 , 2020 .
NTB Scanpix / Fredrik Hagen via REUTERS
The restrictions include official advice against travelling abroad unless necessary , a 10 - day quarantine for all people returning from abroad , and no entry to most non - Norwegians who do not have the right to live and work in Norway .
“ We do not wish to maintain these ( restrictions ) longer than we have to , and at the same time we want to give people as well as the travel industry in this country as much predictability as we can , ” Solberg told a news conference .
“ My advice is to plan for holidays in Norway , ” she added .
The three Baltic republics have set up a “ travel bubble ” allowing free travel between each other but that is yet to happen for nearby Nordic countries , which collaborate closely , though this would be considered before June 15 .
Norway may decide to loosen restrictions imposed on leisure travel from other Nordic states - which include Denmark , Sweden , Iceland and Finland - by June 15 , and will consider admitting travellers from selected other European countries by July 20 .
Sweden , which shares a 1,630 - km ( 1,000 - mile ) border with Norway , has adopted a mix of legislation and recommendations in response to the coronavirus pandemic , rather than declaring a full lockdown as seen in most of the rest of Europe .
Sweden has registered more than 3,500 coronavirus - linked deaths - a toll far lower than many large EU countries but around five times higher than Denmark and more than 10 times that of its other Nordic neighbours .
“ We have a clear ambition to do it ( reopen travel ) Nordic - wide by June 15 but we have to assess the individual countries ’ situation with contamination , ” Foreign Minister Ine Eriksen Soereide told public broadcaster NRK .
Foreigners working in sectors considered crucial to Norway , such as agriculture , fisheries or the oil industry , are already allowed to come into the country though they still have to submit to a 10 - day quarantine .
While the government is encouraging domestic tourism this summer , the exclusion of foreign tourists without offering substantial financial support to travel firms will trigger a string of bankruptcies , warned the Enterprise Federation of Norway , locally known as Virke .
“ The government is suffocating the charter holiday industry , ” the lobby group said in a statement .
Additional reporting by Terje Solsvik ;
Editing by Mark Heinrich

I'll give up pandemic decree power this month, Hungary's Orban says .
2020-05-15 13:17:27 +00:00 .
BELGRADE ( Reuters ) - Hungary ’s nationalist prime minister , Viktor Orban , said on Friday he expected to renounce a set of much - criticised emergency powers to fight the coronavirus this month .
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban gestures during a news conference with Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic at the presidential building in Belgrade , following the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Serbia , May 15 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Marko Djurica
Parliament granted Orban the right in March to rule by decree indefinitely to fight the pandemic .
The law has triggered criticism from opposition parties , rights groups and Europe ’s main rights forum , the Council of Europe .
“ We expect the government will be able to return the special powers to tackle the coronavirus pandemic to parliament at the end of May , ” an announcement on Orban ’s Facebook page read .
After meeting his Serbian counterpart Aleksandar Vucic in Belgrade , Orban said this would “ give a chance to everyone to apologise to Hungary for the unjust accusations ” .
“ There was no basis for the criticisms , ” he added , “ and once they apologise , we also expect their admiration for the success of Hungary ’s defence ( against the virus ) , ” he said .
So far , Hungary has confimed 3,417 coronavirus infections and 442 deaths .
Orban and his ruling Fidesz party have been repeatedly accused in the past by rights watchdogs and members of the opposition of abuses of power and of putting pressure on media to give more loyal coverage , accusations that they deny .
Serbia this month ended its own state of emergency designed to curb the coronavirus , which had meant the closure of borders and airports , a curfew and restrictions on movement : at weekends and holidays for most , and all week long for the elderly .
Opposition groups and rights watchdogs in Serbia have also accused Vucic and the ruling coalition led by his Progressive Party , which faces an election on June 21 , of a heavy - handed approach to the pandemic .
So far , Serbia , a candidate for EU membership , has confirmed 10,374 infections and 224 deaths among its 7 million people .
Vucic , a nationalist firebrand during the Balkan wars of the 1990s who later adopted a pro - European agenda , dismissed international criticism of Orban ’s emergency powers .
“
And so I ’ll ‘ have to appear ’ before some liberal - left or anarcho - leftist circles ... and some newspapers to criticise our Hungarian friends , ” Vucic said .
“ That wo n’t happen . ”
Last week , in its annual report , the Freedom House rights watchdog accused Serbia and Hungary of leaving “ the group of democracies entirely ” .
Additional reporting by Gergely Szakacs in Budapest ;
Editing by Kevin Liffey

Ethiopia migrants recall nightmare when 64 died in a metal container .
2020-05-15 12:55:46 +00:00 .
ADDIS ABABA ( Reuters ) - Silence gradually replaced the screams around Dejene Degefa as his fellow travelers suffocated one by one inside a locked metal container .
He struggled to stay conscious but finally passed out , only waking to the sounds of rescue .
Ethiopian migrants who survived the Mozambique tragedy when 64 died in a metal container , are seen during a Reuters interview at the International Organization for Migration ( IOM ) offices in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia May 14 , 2020 .
Picture taken May 14 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Tiksa Negeri
Dejene was one of only 14 people rescued alive from the back of a truck on the Malawi - Mozambique border on March 24 .
Police found 64 bodies inside .
“ I was beating sides of the container ; I was even beating people near me , ” said 18 - year - old Dejene .
“ I knew that others are dying , and I felt in my heart that I was dying too . ”
He and the other survivors were taken to hospital and then an immigration centre in Mozambique , where they were held for weeks before being repatriated to Ethiopia by the International Organization for Migration , a United Nations body that helps governments and migrants .
Desperate to see their families , the group had to undergo 14 days in quarantine until they tested negative for COVID-19 .
Dejene spoke to Reuters the day they were released .
Dejene and his friends decided to escape poverty at home by seeking jobs abroad on the so - called “ southern route ” , which takes migrants to South Africa rather than Europe .
He said the migrants had balked at crowding into the small container to make the border crossing , but smugglers lashed out , forcing the desperate group inside .
A woman fainted in the hot dark within 15 minutes , he said .
Panic spread quickly ; a mass of arms and legs flailed out .
He was kicked , passed out and woke up with a body on top of him .
Dejene ’s friend Mulugeta , 19 , told Reuters how he had helped save the group by beating on the side of the truck when he heard voices at a checkpoint .
When the doors spilled open , he carried the unconscious Dejene outside .
“ When I opened my eyes ...
I saw was a cloudy sky and that is how I knew that I was alive , ” Dejene told Reuters .
A fifth - grade drop out from Ethiopia ’s southern region , he ’d left his village in September 2019 with 3,000 birr ( $ 90 ) and an identification card .
Dejene will never try to go back to South Africa , he said .
All he wants is to see his family .
“ I would rather beg to feed myself than go back , ” he said .
“ I wish I could hug everyone I know but given the current circumstance , I only can greet them from afar . ”
( $ 1 = 33.7500 birr )
Editing by Katharine Houreld and
Raissa Kasolowsky

Poland, Russia to cut decades-old gas transit ties .
2020-05-15 12:55:36 +00:00 .
* Russia - Poland gas transit deal expires in May
* Poland to sell pipeline capacity via auctions
* Poland has no plans to extend gas supply deal with Russia
By Vladimir Soldatkin and Agnieszka Barteczko MOSCOW / WARSAW , May 15 ( Reuters ) - A gas transit deal between Russia and Poland that expires later this month will not be renewed , Russia ’s Gazprom said , as Warsaw aligns its energy regulations with European Union rules and curbs its decades - old dependence on Russian fuel .
Tensions between Moscow and Warsaw over gas imports are part of wider political strain between Russia and the West , since Moscow ’s annexation of Crimea from gas - producing Ukraine in 2014 .
Warsaw has repeatedly said it will not buy any Russian gas after 2022 , when another long - term supply deal will end .
Instead , it will take pipeline deliveries from Norway and buy sea - borne cargoes of liquefied natural gas , including from the United States .
“ Effectively , the current gas deal is over , ” Gazprom ’s spokesman Sergei Kupriyanov told Reuters .
He said gas would still transit through Poland , but did not go into detail about whether transit fees might rise .
Poland has long complained the fees are too low .
Poland ’s transit deal , which dates back to the 1990s , is tied to the Yamal pipeline that carries Russian gas from the northern Yamal peninsula to Poland and on to Germany .
It has annual capacity of 33 billion cubic metres ( bcm ) .
After the deal expires , Gazprom can book short - term transit capacity with Gaz - System , the operator of Polish pipeline system .
Gaz - System told Reuters the capacity for May 17 - 18 will be available through an auction on May 17 .
The auction for quarterly capacity for the period July 1 – Sept 30 was held on May 4 .
“ The system users booked a significant ( around 80 % ) capacity at the Yamal pipeline for the quarter starting on July 1 , ” Gaz - System said without revealing the users .
Gazprom declined to comment on the auctions .
TRANSIT CAPACITY SURPLUS
In theory , Russia will have access to surplus transit capacity following the completion of the Nord Stream-2 undersea pipeline expected early next year , although construction is suspended for now because of U.S. sanctions .
The Nord Stream-2 pipeline has for years divided opinion in the European Union , as Germany argued there was a strong business case , while other nations said it was political and breached EU rules on pipeline access .
On Friday , Germany ’s energy regulator declined to grant a waiver of European Union gas directives to the operators of the pipeline .
Nord Stream-2 also faces the problem of a collapse in energy demand because of the impact of the novel coronavirus .
Gazprom ’s exports to Europe this year are expected to drop to 167 bcm from 199 bcm in 2019 .
Poland ’s gas demand is about 17 bcm a year , with more than half provided by Russia under the long - term Gazprom contract .
For futures supplies , Poland is expanding , an LNG terminal in Swinoujscie on its Baltic coast .
It is also constructing a pipeline to Norway .
( Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin and Agnieszka Barteczko ;
editing by Barbara Lewis )

China's Tianqi Lithium talking to banks about easing loan terms .
2020-05-15 10:49:20 +00:00 .
BEIJING ( Reuters ) - China ’s Tianqi Lithium , one of the world ’s top lithium producers , said on Friday it was talking to banks about adjusting the terms of its debt as a key repayment on a loan looms and the lithium market tanks .
The company previously said it was weighing asset sales or bringing in strategic investors after a plunge in prices for lithium , a key ingredient in electric vehicle batteries , left it struggling to repay a multibillion - dollar loan taken out to fund a major acquisition in 2018 .
In response to a question on an interactive investor platform on Friday , Tianqi said it was “ actively ” communicating with various partner banks with regard to “ adjusting the maturity structure of the debt , relaxing loan conditions and other measures ” to ease its liquidity problems .
It agreed to buy a 23.8 % stake in Chilean miner Sociedad Quimica y Minera de Chile , or SQM , in May 2018 for $ 4.1 billion , most of which came from a $ 3.5 billion syndicated loan led by state - owned bank Citic Group .
Around $ 1.9 billion of that loan is due to be repaid by November 2020 , the company said , answering a separate question .
Tianqi , whose market capitalisation has slumped well below the price it paid for the SQM stake , said it was also communicating with local governments , regulators and creditors to safeguard credit lines .
Prices for lithium have plunged more than 70 % since Tianqi agreed the acquisition as supply overwhelms demand , which has now been hit by the coronavirus outbreak .
On top of the loan , Tianqi has a $ 5.6 million interest payment due on May 28 on a $ 300 million bond maturing in 2022 .
The yield on the bond has ballooned out to around 60 % , according to Refinitiv Eikon data , as investors sell off on perceived higher risk of a Tianqi default .
GRAPHIC : Payback time - here Tianqi , which posted a 6 billion yuan ( $ 845 million ) net loss in 2019 , has been downgraded by ratings agency Moody ’s on four separate occasions since September and is now rated at the Caa1 junk grade .
The Chengdu - based firm also owes around $ 100 million to its Australian joint venture Talison Lithium , which operates the giant Greenbushes lithium mine and an on - hold processing plant at Kwinana .
Tianqi has been linked with the sale of part of its 51 % stake in Talison , in which it partners U.S.-based Albemarle Corp , as it looks to cut debt .
Reporting by Tom Daly ; additional reporting by Min Zhang in Beijing , Melanie Burton in Melbourne and Andrew Galbraith in Shanghai ;
editing by Mark Potter

Amazon Prime snags Bollywood premieres, angering theater owners .
2020-05-15 07:04:43 +00:00 .
MUMBAI ( Reuters ) -
Amazon Prime Video , Amazon ’s streaming service , will screen several new Indian films originally meant for theatrical release this month , sparking protests from cinema owners as the novel coronavirus outbreak upends Bollywood .
India has been under a strict lockdown since March 25 to battle the virus , leaving about 9,500 theatres shut and depriving Bollywood of box - office revenue .
So producers of seven films , including two Bollywood movies starring A - listers , such as Amitabh Bachchan and Vidya Balan , will stream the movies directly on Amazon Prime Video following a deal , the company said in a statement on Friday .
“ Gulabo Sitabo ” , a family comedy with Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana , which was set for release in April , will now stream directly on Amazon Prime Video in June , as will “ Shakuntala Devi ” , a biopic of the Indian mathematician of the same name .
Two of India ’s biggest cinema chains , Inox and PVR , who were meant to screen “ Gulabo Sitabo ” , bemoaned the decision .
“ INOX will be constrained to examine its options , and reserves all rights , including taking retributive measures , in dealing with such fair - weather friends , ” Inox said in a statement .
The producers ’ guild said the comments from Inox were “ abrasive and unconstructive ” .
PVR chief executive Kamal Gianchandani told the Indian Express on Thursday , after Amazon announced it would stream “ Gulabo Sitabo ” , that he was disappointed by the news .
FILE PHOTO :
A cinema goer watches a Bollywood movie inside Maratha Mandir theatre in Mumbai December 11 , 2014 .
REUTERS / Danish Siddiqui / File Photo The other five films in the Amazon deal are productions from the prolific , southern - language film industry .
Streaming platforms like Amazon and Netflix have in the past signed deals with Indian studios for digital rights , but mainstream releases have always prioritised theatrical revenues first .
In China , regulators aim to protect the industry by enforcing rules to stop movies premiering online , in particular by strictly managing “ theatrical window period ” requirements , a period for movies to be screened in cinemas before they can be shown elsewhere .
But analysts say the Amazon deal in India is likely the beginning of a broader trend , as lingering fears of coronavirus infection and lower discretionary spending keep people away from multiplexes and single - screen cinemas .
“ There will be a reset in the way that producers and studios think about their portfolios , ” Vijay Subramaniam , director and head , Content , Amazon Prime Video , India , told Reuters in an interview .
Subramaniam said Amazon , which competes in India with Netflix and Disney ’s Hotstar , did not see acquisition costs going up for the streaming platform .
Bollywood is a huge draw for India ’s burgeoning online audiences , who - driven by cheap data and smartphones - are spending more time watching content online than ever before .
Media reported that more producers in Bollywood and the southern - language industry were in talks with streaming platforms for direct - to - digital releases .
FILE PHOTO :
Vijay Subramaniam , Director and Head , Content , Amazon Prime Video India , speaks during an interview with Reuters in Mumbai , India , November 14 , 2018 .
REUTERS / Francis Mascarenhas / File Photo Last month , theatre owners in the southern state of Tamil Nadu threatened to boycott well - known actor Suriya over his decision to stream his film on a digital platform .
That film , “ Ponmagal Vandhal ” is part of the seven - film slate that Amazon announced on Friday .
Reporting by Shilpa Jamkhandikar ; Editing by Alexandra Ulmer ,
Robert Birsel

Separated by coronavirus, Malaysian mothers in Singapore freeze breast milk for babies at home .
2020-05-15 06:12:21 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE / JOHOR BARU , Malaysia ( Reuters ) -
Before the outbreak of coronavirus this year , Malaysian accountant Jazerel See used to travel regularly between her country ’s southern state of Johor and neighbouring Singapore where she worked , going home once a week to her parents and her seven - month - old boy .
A Malaysian mother who is residing in Singapore brings her frozen breastmilk to be delivered back to Malaysia for her child , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Singapore May 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Edgar Su
But after Malaysia banned citizens from travelling overseas in mid - March in a bid to stem the coronavirus outbreak , See and hundreds of other Malaysian women were cut off from their families if they wished to continue working , and unable to breastfeed their newborn children .
See said the women , communicating via social media , then pooled together funds to ship supplies of frozen breast milk to their babies back home .
“ We sought help from all the mummies and we tried to save and share the cost , because it ’s not really cheap to send back the milk , ” 32 - year - old See told Reuters .
In Johor Baru town , her mother Wai Lan Moy said : “ ( I like that the baby ) is drinking her mother ’s breast milk , because drinking breast milk is better for the baby ’s immune system .
It ’s easier to take care ( of the baby ) that way . ”
An estimated half a million Malaysians live and work in Singapore , with thousands commuting regularly to the wealthy city - state from Johor .
Although Malaysia allowed citizens to return , they have to undergo two weeks of quarantine .
Many of those working in Singapore were reluctant to go back fearing the spread of the virus as well as the risk of losing their jobs .
Singapore also set up restrictions of its own in late March , barring or quarantining visitors .
“ If I go back ( to Malaysia ) now , I might bring back the virus , ” See said .
“ I keep telling myself to just bear it for a moment to ensure a better future . ”
So far , four shipments totalling about 7,000 kilogrammes of milk have been sent from 200 mothers in Singapore , Johor state lawmaker Andrew Chen Kah Eng said .
Such a shipment has never been made before , he said .
“ I talk to officers from CIQ ( Customs , Immigration and Quarantine ) , they have never done that before , even from agriculture department , ministry of health and also customs , they have never done that before .
“ They are willing to help . ”
Singapore has among the highest number of coronavirus infections in Asia , with more than 26,000 cases , mainly due to outbreaks in cramped migrant - worker dormitories .
Malaysia had the highest number of cases in Southeast Asia until mid - April but the daily rise in infections has steadily declined since the curbs were imposed , with a total of around 6,800 reported so far .
Reporting by Joseph Campbell in Singapore , Daveena Kaur in Johor Bahru ; Writing by Rozanna Latiff ;
Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan

Djokovic confident he will claim Grand Slam record .
2020-05-15 05:51:11 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
Novak Djokovic believes he will win the most Grand Slam titles and become the longest - reigning world number one by the time he retires , the 32 - year - old Serb said in an interview .
FILE PHOTO :
Tennis - ATP 500 - Dubai Tennis Championships - Dubai Duty Free Tennis Stadium , Dubai , United Arab Emirates - February 29 , 2020
Serbia 's Novak Djokovic celebrates after winning the Final match against Greece 's Stefanos Tsitsipas REUTERS /
Ahmed Jadallah
The current world number one has 17 Grand Slam titles to his name - two behind Rafa Nadal and three fewer than Roger Federer - and said he has no doubt in his ability to overtake the other members of the so - called ‘ Big Three . ’
“ I ’m always very confident in myself , ” he said in an interview on In Depth with Graham Bensinger .
“ I believe I can win the most slams and break the record for longest number one .
Those are definitely my clear goals . ”
Djokovic was in imperious form before the novel coronavirus pandemic brought the circuit to a halt in early March .
He lifted the ATP Cup with Serbia , won an eighth Australian Open title and then completed a fifth triumph at the Dubai Tennis Championships , extending his unbeaten run to 21 .
Swiss great Federer also owns the record for total number of weeks at number one , with 310 , and consecutive weeks at the top position , with 237 , compared with Djokovic ’s 282 and 122 .
Federer turns 39 in August and Djokovic said he could envision himself still playing at 40 .
“ I do n’t believe in limits .
I think limits are only illusions of your ego or your mind , ” he said .
It was n’t too long ago that Djokovic had an entirely different outlook on the game .
After falling in straight sets to unseeded Benoit Paire at the Miami Open in 2018 , his wife , Jelena , said he was ready to hang up the racquet .
“ He said to me that he ’s quitting and that ’s the truth , ” she said in the interview .
“ He lost in Miami .
It was a terrible loss .
And then he just , you know , gathered all of us and said , ‘ You know guys , I ’m done . ’ ” “
And I was like , ‘ What ? ’
And he goes like , ‘ Yeah . ’
He said , ‘ Edoardo [ Artaldi ] , you can speak with my sponsors .
I want to be clear with them .
I do n’t know if I ’m stopping for six months , a year or forever . ’ ”
Djokovic did not go through with his retirement plans and bounced back to triumph at Wimbledon that July .
In the wide - ranging interview , Djokovic also discussed past struggles with his health , his marriage and surviving the bombings in his native Serbia in 1999 .
The full interview will air in the U.S. this weekend on local affiliates , and on international and regional sports networks next week .
Reporting by Rory Carroll in Los Angeles .
Editing by Gerry Doyle

Mexico appears to delay auto industry restart to June 1 amid confusion .
2020-05-14 23:46:45 +00:00 .
MEXICO CITY ( Reuters ) - Mexico on Thursday appeared to push back by two weeks the date when automotive plants can return to work after the coronavirus lockdown , creating confusion among companies about how soon they can reconnect supply chains tied to U.S. manufacturing .
The government on Wednesday had indicated the sector would start reopening on Monday and published advice to that effect in a page in its official gazette .
The government later withdrew the page from the gazette without clarifying whether it would affect the dates of the restart .
On Thursday , it published fresh instructions in the gazette indicating the industry would not reopen until June 1 .
“ This would be a real crisis for suppliers , ” said Ann Wilson , senior vice president of government affairs at the Motor Equipment Manufacturers Association , a major U.S. auto parts industry group , referring to the possibility of not being allowed to resume production next week in Mexico .
Despite the intensifying challenge posed by the pandemic in Mexico , the United States and auto companies have been pressing its government to reopen factories quickly because automakers will struggle to operate without parts from south of the border .
Some lawmakers in President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador ’s ruling MORENA party had publicly expressed concern about a Monday restart in regions badly hit by the coronavirus outbreak .
The uncertainty follows death figures that show Mexico ’s pandemic is still increasing , despite government predictions that the virus would peak last week .
Tuesday and Wednesday were the two most lethal days in Mexico ’s outbreak , with 353 and 294 additional deaths .
The Mexican government is now indicating that companies should use the period between Monday and June 1 to put in place their safety protocols to mitigate the virus ’ spread .
However , auto industry sources told Reuters that talks are still ongoing between Mexico and automakers and suppliers about when they can resume production .
Industry executives believe Mexico may still clarify whether they can begin production before June 1 , the sources said .
If auto parts plants can not resume next week , automakers would have to halt most production soon after they restart in the United States and could see shortages of key vehicles assembled in Mexico , the sources said .
“ We are seeking clarity about the situation as soon as possible , ” one Mexican industry source said .
One major industry body representing Mexican auto part manufacturers said it would not adhere to the new date of June 1 and considered the previous May 18 restart date as having legal force .
“ We will start to operate according to page 29 of the decree published in the official gazette yesterday , ” said Alberto Bustamante of the National Autoparts Industry lobby group .
General Motors ’ ( GM.N ) pickup plant in Silao is critical to the Detroit company ’s North American operations and had been expected to reopen next week .
“ But just now I have just been told we will not restart until June 1 .
For now we will only be able to use the next weeks to get ready to restart the operation , ” said a source in the Silao labor union , who asked not to be identified .
A GM spokeswoman , Teresa Cid , said the company had no comment about an official date to restart manufacturing operations in Mexico .
Reporting by Sharay Angulo and Anthony Esposito ; additional reporting by Dave Graham in MEXICO CITY and David Shepardson in WASHINGTON ;
editing by Frank Jack Daniel , Grant McCool and Cynthia Osterman

Palestinians look to a digital future to connect with their past .
2020-05-14 14:05:30 +00:00 .
JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) - Virtual reality tours have replaced flag - waving rallies as Palestinians facing coronavirus restrictions create digital spaces to lament the loss of their physical homeland in 1948 .
A Palestinian wearing gloves works on designs for a digital fine arts online event to mark Nakba amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) restrictions , in Gaza City May 10 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Mohammed Salem Cellphone apps and Zoom video chats are among the other online tools Palestinians are using to mark the Nakba , or “ Catastrophe ” , when they and their descendants were forced from their villages or fled in the war that surrounded Israel ’s creation .
The Nakba is generally marked on May 15 – the day after Israel ’s Independence Day in the western calendar .
Last year Israeli troops wounded nearly 50 Palestinians during Nakba protests , but rallies were cancelled this year .
In the West Bank , Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas authorized digital activities to mark the anniversary .
While the Palestinians still have no state on the ground , many are finding new ways to remember their past and express their identity online .
Palestine VR , a free app , is one of several new tools that aim in part to connect millions of diaspora Palestinians with their forefathers ’ towns and villages , some of which now lie abandoned in Israel .
“ Coming to Palestine is transformational , especially for Palestinians who are n’t allowed to visit , ” said Ramallah - based Palestine VR founder Salem Barahmeh , 30 , as he guided Zoom participants through the app ’s 47 virtual tours of Gaza , Jerusalem and the West Bank .
“ We want to share Palestine with them , and help them feel and understand this place . ”
Majd al - Shihabi , a Palestinian refugee born in Syria , has developed Palestine Open Maps , an interactive database of Palestinian villages and Jewish towns as they stood in 1948 .
“ Palestinians anywhere can see visual details of their villages , reinforcing our understanding of what Palestine was like before the exodus , ” Shihabi , 31 , said from Beirut .
The new initiatives highlight a “ digital nation ” that has also formed around Palestinian culture , food and fashion , according to activists and entrepreneurs .
Joudie Kalla , a Palestinian - British chef and author of Palestine on a Plate , says vigorous recipe debates amongst her 124,000 Instagram followers are evidence of a growing community .
“ No one can stop Palestinians from connecting on social media - even if it ’s impassioned discussion over whose village makes the best kibbeh , ” Kalla , 42 , said from London , referencing a traditional Arabic meat pie .
STATEHOOD ELUSIVE
Palestinians want a state in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip with East Jerusalem as its capital .
Israel captured and occupied those territories in the 1967 Middle East war , later annexing East Jerusalem in a move not recognised internationally and withdrawing from Gaza in 2005 .
In 2012 , the U.N. General Assembly approved the de facto recognition of the sovereign state of Palestine .
But full Palestinian statehood has remained elusive .
Many Palestinians abroad fear losing touch with their roots .
This has prompted “ fusion ” projects that are transforming Palestinian fashion staples like the keffiyeh - a black or red - and - white checkered scarf now available in multiple colours .
Clothing company Threads of Palestine makes keffiyeh tee - shirts , hoodies , and onesies for babies , sourcing fabric from the West Bank ’s last keffiyeh factory .
“ The keffiyeh , it oozes with Palestinian culture , ” said manager Abed al - Aziz al - Karaki at Hebron ’s Hirbawi factory .
( This story has been refiled to add dropped words in paragraph 19 )

Yellowstone, Grand Canyon join national parks set for limited reopenings .
2020-05-14 05:18:27 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
Two of the most popular national parks in the American West - Yellowstone and Grand Canyon - will welcome back visitors on a limited basis over the next several days after lengthy closures due to the coronavirus , the government announced on Wednesday .
FILE PHOTO :
People use phones and tablets to photograph Old Faithful geyser erupting in Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming , May 16 , 2014 .
Picture taken May 16 , 2014 .
REUTERS /
Jim Urquhart Grand Canyon National Park in Arizona , closed to the public since April 1 , will initially reopen just for four days - Friday through Monday - with public access restricted to a half dozen viewpoints along the South Rim of the canyon , the National Park Service said .
Visitors will only be allowed in through the southern entrance from 6 a.m. until 10 a.m. but will be permitted to remain until dark .
A handful of picnic areas and restrooms will be open .
The South Rim ’s eastern entrance and desert view area will remain closed , along with the inner canyon , all hiking trails , the Colorado River and the entire North Rim of the canyon .
All commercial services within the park will also stay shut .
“ Visitors exporting the South Rim should plan to be self - sufficient , bringing enough food and water during their trip as well as hand sanitizer , ” the Park Service said in a notice posted on the park ’s website .
The park , which normally draws more than 6 million visitors a year , is planning for a similar limited reopening for the Memorial Day holiday weekend at the end of the month , park spokeswoman Lily Daniels told Reuters .
A more expansive reopening is scheduled to begin next Monday for the southern portion of Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming , known for its spectacular geothermal features and abundant wildlife .
Closed to visitors since March 24 , it will reopen at its southern and eastern entrances , along with the entire “ lower loop ” road providing access to Yellowstone Lake , Old Faithful and several other geyser basins , according to the National Park Service .
Visitors will have access to restrooms , service stations , trails and boardwalks in those areas .
Portions of the park that lie in Montana and Idaho , which have yet to lift out - of - state restrictions , will remain closed for the time being .
As will be the case initially at the Grand Canyon , overnight lodging and campgrounds will remain closed in Yellowstone , which typically attracts some 4 million visitors a year , and no tour buses will be allowed , the park service said .
Visitors to both parks are encouraged to wear face coverings in high - density areas .
Yellowstone and the Grand Canyon are the latest of several major Park Service units that have begun to welcome back visitors or will be partially reopened in the coming weeks , including Grand Teton National Park in Wyoming , Rocky Mountain National Park in Colorado , Zion National Park in Utah and Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and North Carolina .
Reporting by Steve Gorman in Los Angeles ; Additional reporting by David Schwartz in Phoenix and Keith Coffman in Denver ;
Editing by Robert Birsel

Watchdog reports record number of anti-Semitic incidents in U.S. last year .
2020-05-12 11:48:10 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Jews in the United States suffered the largest number of anti - Semitic incidents last year since the Anti - Defamation League began collecting records 40 years ago , the racism watchdog said on Tuesday .
FILE PHOTO :
A woman holds candles while standing in solidarity with the victims after an assailant stabbed five people attending a party at an Hasidic rabbi 's home in Monsey , N.Y. , on December 28 , 2019 , while they were celebrating Hanukkah , in Brooklyn , New York City , U.S. , December 29 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Amr Alfiky / File Photo
The 2,107 anti - Semitic incidents recorded in 2019 in the United States included deadly attacks by gunmen at a California Synagogue and a New Jersey kosher grocery store , and a fatal stabbing at a rabbi ’s home in New York .
It marked a 12 % rise from 1,879 incidents in 2018 .
Previously , the highest number was recorded in 1994 , when the ADL reported multiple unsolved arsons , cross burnings and a drive - by shooting .
The group ’s audit of anti - Semitic incidents from 2019 counted 1,127 cases of harassment , 61 cases of physical assaults and 919 instances of vandalism .
More than half of the assaults took place in New York City .
“ This was a year of unprecedented anti - Semitic activity , a time when many Jewish communities across the country had direct encounters with hate , ” ADL Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Greenblatt said .
In recent weeks the ADL has issued warnings of a continuing surge in incidents , saying conspiracy theories connected to the coronavirus outbreak could worsen anti - Semitism in the United States .
Greenblatt has also in the past partly blamed President Donald Trump for the rise in anti - Semitism , saying Trump should have done more to condemn incidents , including a far - right demonstration in Virginia in 2017 at which protesters chanted anti - Jewish slogans .
One counter - protester was killed .
Among last year ’s attacks , a gunman killed a worshiper and wounded three others during Sabbath services in Poway , California , near San Diego .
Two gunmen killed a police officer and three bystanders before storming a kosher supermarket in New Jersey .
Five people were wounded , one of whom later died , when an attacker broke into a rabbi ’s house and stabbed Hanukkah celebrants in Rockland County , north of New York City .
In late 2018 , a gunman killed 11 worshipers at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh in the deadliest anti - Semitic attack in U.S. history .
“ We plan to work with members of Congress and other elected officials this year to ensure that funding is in place and that all states mandate Holocaust education , which can serve as an effective deterrent for future acts of hate , ” the ADL CEO said on Tuesday .
Reporting by Kanishka Singh in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Peter Graff

Argentina's famed steakhouses adapt to life under lockdown .
2020-05-12 11:15:24 +00:00 .
BUENOS AIRES ( Reuters ) -
On the tree - lined streets outside Buenos Aires steakhouse Don Julio in the trendy neighborhood of Palermo , diners are used to joining snaking lines to get a coveted table at the restaurant as evening falls .
Gustavo , a butcher who works at the Don Julio steakhouse 's butcher shop , prepares an order , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , in Buenos Aires , Argentina May 11 , 2020 .
Picture taken May 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Agustin Marcarian
But since a strict nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 20 to slow the spread of the coronavirus , it is having to adapt .
Don Julio has converted into a high - end butcher shop , with plans to roll out street food .
Pablo Rivero , the owner of Don Julio , said the aim was to keep alive the atmosphere and feeling of the corner grill , or ‘ parrilla ’ - a concept that is a key part of Argentine culture and as ubiquitous and emblematic of Buenos Aires as a cafe in Paris or local London pub .
“ We are not going to lose it , so it is a question of finding a way of getting through this , ” he said .
Argentines have been told to stay at home , unless they are a key worker or are buying groceries or other essentials .
That has meant restaurants and cafes have been closed , while small local bakeries , grocers and butchers remain open .
“ Certainly the idea of ​​the butcher shop is to give people a shade of Don Julio , ” said Rivero .
He said they would not do cooked food delivery because it was hard to maintain quality , though they are accelerating a plan to sell street food .
“ This way we can engage people in something that can represent an income until activity restarts , ” he said , adding that his 100 employees were still working during the lockdown in the butcher shop or helping remodel the restaurant .
Gaston Riveira , the head of another of the capital city ’s top parrillas , La Cabrera , said the sector was going through a tough time under the lockdown , which has been extended to at least May 24 .
“ We are in a difficult moment because there is no tourism and Argentines are not going out because of the quarantine , ” he told Reuters .
He said the restaurant had “ transformed into a food factory ” doing deliveries on a reduced menu .
Deliveries in aluminum trays and covered pots come with instructions on how to ensure the food is as close to restaurant quality as it can be .
“ We try to make it as similar as possible , ” he said , adding that a lot of the cuts offered come on the bone , which helps maintain the temperature and “ juiciness . ”
The global coronavirus pandemic has hit international demand for Argentine beef more broadly , with many restaurants shuttered from Asia to Europe , said Mario Ravettino , president of Argentina ’s meat exporters group .
Some companies were freezing merchandise , he added , while “ other firms are turning to the domestic market , which is extremely dynamic and the situation is changing day by day . ”
Francisco Palazzo , a 28 - year - old who lives with his girlfriend in Buenos Aires , said it was important for people to be able to get a taste of normality .
Before the lockdown , he usually ate an ‘ asado ’ mixed grill three times a week .
Recently , he said he bought some cooked meat , sausage , and black pudding from a parrilla near his apartment that was now doing take - out .
“ It was late and it made us want to eat an asado and continue with our old habits , ” he said .
“ What is more you can also contribute to that business , which has really great meat - just doing the little bit you can . ”
Reporting by Juan Bustamante and Maximilian Heath ; Writing by Adam Jourdan ;
Editing by Rosalba O'Brien

BOJ will do 'whatever it can' to combat pandemic fallout: Kuroda .
2020-05-12 04:13:53 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) -
The Bank of Japan will do “ whatever it can ” to mitigate the growing fallout from the coronavirus pandemic , Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said on Tuesday , warning that a collapse in global activity has had severe consequences on the the economy .
FILE PHOTO :
Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda takes questions from reporters at the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank in Washington , U.S. , October 18 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
James Lawler Duggan
The central bank has various tools at its disposal if it were to ramp up stimulus such as accelerating money printing , increasing market operation tools and cutting interest rates , Kuroda said in a semi - annual testimony to parliament .
He signalled that any further steps the BOJ takes will focus on helping cash - strapped firms , rather than stimulating demand .
“ What ’s most important for us is to take steps to smoothen corporate financing and stabilise markets , ” Kuroda said .
“ We will do whatever we can as a central bank , working closely with the government . ”
Kuroda ruled out the possibility of adding municipal bonds to the list of assets the BOJ buys , however , saying he saw no need to do so for the time being .
The world ’s third - largest economy is on the cusp of a deep recession with many analysts projecting a double - digit contraction in the current quarter , as the pandemic forces households to stay home and businesses to shut down .
While the government plans to lift the state of emergency for some prefectures that saw infection numbers stabilise , many big cities including Tokyo will likely see current restrictions kept in place at least for the rest of this month .
Kuroda said Japan did not face an imminent risk of a sharp credit contraction , as many financial institutions have sufficient buffers to weather the pain from the pandemic .
But he warned the outlook for Japan ’s economy was “ highly uncertain ” and dependent on when the pandemic is contained , with risks skewed to the downside .
“ Japan ’s economy is in an increasingly severe state .
The outlook will remain severe for the time being , ” he said .
The BOJ expanded monetary stimulus for the second straight months in April .
For both months , it focused on steps to ease corporate funding as efforts to prop up demand would run against government requests for households to stay home .
The measures taken so far include doubling the pace of annual purchases of exchange - traded funds ( ETF ) , ramping up buying of corporate bonds and commercial paper , and pledging to buy unlimited amounts of government bonds .
All the measures are temporary steps to combat the fallout from the pandemic , BOJ executive director Shinichi Uchida told parliament on Tuesday , adding the central bank had no preset idea now on when they will be rolled back .
The BOJ also plans to set up as early as this month a new scheme that rewards financial institutions that tap government loan schemes to boost lending to small firms .
“ We ’re ready to take sufficient steps judged necessary at the time , ” Kuroda said .
About 15,847 coronavirus infections and 633 deaths have been confirmed in Japan as of Monday , excluding cases from a cruise ship previously quarantined in Yokohama , according to NHK .
Editing by Gerry Doyle and Jacqueline Wong

Luxury stores test the water in a Paris devoid of tourists .
2020-05-11 20:46:05 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) -
At an Hermes ( HRMS.PA ) store on one of Paris ’s swankiest streets , shop assistants greeted customers through face masks on Monday with sanitiser gels and a polite refrain : “ May I refresh your hands ? ” Employees stand outside a reopened Chanel fashion boutique in Paris after France begun a gradual end to a nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in France , May 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Charles Platiau
As France began to exit its strict coronavirus lockdown , many of its luxury brands also opened their doors , giving sanitary protocols a makeover and testing people ’s appetite for splurging after a shutdown that has rocked economies worldwide .
At Louis Vuitton ’s store on Paris ’s grand Place Vendome square , which sells everything from 645 euro ( $ 700 ) cocktail shakers to jewellery worth hundreds of thousands , a few local clients kept business ticking over .
“ It ’s a friend ’s birthday and we ’re buying her a wallet , ” said Paris resident Hajar .
“ It ’ll be the first time we ’ve seen each other in two months . ”
At the Hermes shop on the Rue du Faubourg Saint - Honore , there was even a semblance of business as usual .
A shop assistant discreetly kept count of the number of people milling around at any one time - around 50 at one point in early afternoon , across two floors .
And one shopper said she had been told to make an appointment if she wanted to discuss buying a pricey “ Kelly ” handbag .
“ They always make things difficult at Hermes , ” said Blessing Williams , a 23 - year - old model from Nigeria who lives in Paris .
She still came away with a pair of sandals .
But travel restrictions and the resulting dearth of international tourists will remain a major drag for months to come on luxury shopping capitals such as Paris , or Milan , where fashion firms are set to reopen stores on May 18 .
Depending on the brand , foreign tourists usually make up between 35 % and 55 % of luxury labels ’ revenue in Europe , according to Jefferies analyst Flavio Cereda .
HANDBAGS IN QUARANTINE
In Germany , where small stores have been open for three weeks , well - heeled shoppers looking for luxury are still few and far between , suit maker Hugo Boss said last week .
The plush changing cabins at Vuitton ’s Vendome shop , now regularly disinfected , were a lot less busy than usual on Monday , assistants said on Monday .
A nearby Chanel store was quieter than before the crisis too , staff said .
Hermes boss Axel Dumas , mingling with employees at the Faubourg Saint - Honore shop , declined to comment on how the first few hours of trade had gone .
Despite signs of recovery in China , the industry ’s biggest market , global sales of luxury goods are expected to slump by up to 50 % this year , the consultancy Bain forecast last week .
For now , brands are focused on easing into new hygiene routines , including making the use of face masks compulsory .
Clients wear protective masks as they leave on the reopening day of a store of the French fashion house Chanel as Switzerland eases the lockdown measures during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Zurich , Switzerland May 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Arnd Wiegmann At Vuitton in Paris , owned by the LVMH ( LVMH.PA ) conglomerate , clothes that are tried on are set aside to be steamed , and handbags are put in a 48 - hour quarantine .
Cleaning protocols for other items vary , depending on how close they come to people ’s faces or the materials involved .
Christian Dior , another LVMH label , and Chanel , a privately owned group , have also erected plexiglass shields by the tills .
Reporting by Sarah White in Paris , Silvia Aloisi in Milan and Emma Thomasson in Berlin

KKR builds 5.2% stake in ProSieben, says company undervalued .
2020-05-11 18:00:39 +00:00 .
BERLIN ( Reuters ) - U.S. private equity house KKR ( KKR.N ) said on Monday it had acquired a stake of 5.2 % in ProSiebenSat.1 Media ( PSMGn . DE ) , becoming the third investor to amass a sizable shareholding in the struggling German broadcaster .
FILE PHOTO - Trading information for KKR
Co is displayed on a screen on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) in New York , U.S. , August 23 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Brendan McDermid KKR , which bought ProSieben with Permira in 2006 in a deal reported to be worth 5.6 billion euros ( $ 6.1 billion ) before selling out eight years later , said it was again backing the company because it offered value .
“ We have decided to reinvest into ProSiebenSat.1 based on our belief that markets are currently undervaluing the company , ” a KKR spokesman told Reuters .
“ We view this as a financial investment . ”
ProSieben disclosed KKR ’s stake in line with German stock exchange rules which trigger a mandatory filing at a threshold of 5 % .
KKR owns a 3.2 % stake directly and 2.0 % via unspecified instruments , it said .
KKR joins Italy ’s Mediaset ( MS.MI ) , which directly and indirectly owns 24.2 % in ProSieben , and investor Daniel Kretinsky whose Czech Media Invest ( CMI ) vehicle holds a 10 % stake .
“ We view it as a positive signal that , in addition to Mediaset and CMI , other market participants see ProSieben as an attractive investment - even at a time of crisis , ” ProSieben said in a statement .
ProSieben is now valued at less than half the sum paid by KKR and Permira 14 years ago .
It has shed two CEOs in the past two years as its core commercial TV franchise came under pressure from U.S. streaming giants such as Netflix .
Its last CEO , Max Conze , was ousted at the end of March after his attempt to pivot to digital commerce and entertainment shored up revenue but squeezed margins .
Conze ’s tenure was marked by management turmoil and he barely outlasted a deputy who publicly chided the “ boardroom soap opera ” at ProSieben .
Chief Financial Officer Rainer Beaujean was promoted to the top job just as the coronavirus pandemic hit Germany , causing advertising revenue to collapse by 40 % in April .
Mediaset ’s stakebuilding has raised speculation that it may launch a takeover bid .
Kretinsky , and now KKR , have signalled however that they are financial - not strategic - investors who see value in ProSieben ’s entertainment franchise .
Mediaset , controlled by the family of former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi , rules out a hostile takeover of Munich - based ProSieben as this would be costly and would likely trigger a political backlash in Germany , say sources close to the matter .
The stakebuilding activity comes ahead of ProSieben ’s annual general meeting on June 10 .
Investors must register their shareholdings a week earlier to be eligible to cast their votes at the AGM in elections to the supervisory board .
Additional reporting by Elvira Pollina ;
Editing by Ludwig Burger and David Evans

Mexico central bank seen cutting key rate to lowest level since 2016: Reuters poll .
2020-05-11 16:39:48 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
The logo of Mexico 's Central Bank ( Banco de Mexico ) is seen at its building in downtown Mexico City , Mexico February 28 , 2019 .
Picture taken February 28 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Daniel Becerril / File Photo MEXICO CITY ( Reuters ) - Mexico ’s central bank is expected to again cut its benchmark interest rate on Thursday , responding to the economic toll of the coronavirus and reduced pressure on inflation , a Reuters poll showed .
According to the survey , 19 of 21 analysts expect the bank to reduce the interbank interest rate by 50 basis points to 5.50 % , which would be its lowest level since November 2016 and its eighth consecutive cut .
One analyst predicted a cut of 100 basis points , while another expected a cut of just 25 points .
By the end of 2020 , the key interest rate will likely reach 4.75 % , according to the median of analysts ’ projections .
“ We anticipate that the board of governors of the Bank of Mexico will cut the benchmark rate by 50 ( basis points ) to 5.50 % , with the aim of promoting the proper functioning of financial markets and supporting domestic demand , in the context of weakening activity and declines inflationary pressures , ” Citibanamex said in a report .
Analysts expect the Mexican economy to decline this year by as much as 10 % as the coronavirus batters various sectors .
Even before the coronavirus hammered local business , Mexico ’s GDP fell 0.1 % in 2019 .
Meanwhile , Mexico ’s year - on - year inflation slowed in April to its lowest level since December 2015 , giving the central bank more room to continue cutting the benchmark interest rate .
Banxico , as the bank is known , cut its key rate on April 21 by 50 basis points to 6 % in an off - schedule decision and took additional measures to provide liquidity to the financial system .
The bank had already made a cut of 50 basis points to the key rate on March 20 .
The central bank will publish its monetary policy statement on Thursday , May 14 at 1:00 p.m.(1800 GMT ) .
Reporting by Miguel Gutierrez ;
Editing by Andrea Ricci

Second wave of COVID-19 cases sweeps Senegal's holy city .
2020-05-11 10:29:42 +00:00 .
TOUBA , Senegal ( Reuters ) -
Senegal ’s holy city of Touba is fighting a second wave of COVID-19 infections , dashing hopes that swift action by authorities had stopped the new coronavirus from spreading in the one - time epicentre .
A Senegalese army doctor examines a local resident at the army field hospital , amid the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Touba , Senegal May 1 , 2020 .
Picture taken May 1 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Zohra
Bensemra Confirmed cases in Touba have risen seven - fold to more than 190 since a market trader fell ill in April , ending a two - week lull in new cases .
Now , as other countries in West Africa , including Nigeria and Ghana , are beginning to ease lockdowns to assist those whose livelihoods were disrupted , Senegal is tightening restrictions to try to contain the outbreak .
A cluster of cases in Touba in March prompted President Macky Sall to close schools and ban religious gatherings , one of the first leaders in sub - Saharan Africa to do so .
A Senegalese man returning from Italy had infected 17 others , including his 2 - year - old child , just weeks before Senegal ’s second city was due to host thousands of pilgrims at a religious festival .
Touba is the headquarters of a powerful Sufi Muslim brotherhood and known to some as “ little Mecca ” .
Its Grand Mosque , whose white minarets tower over the city of 1.5 million people , was ordered to close its doors .
A dusk - to - dawn curfew was imposed and public awareness campaigns launched .
But despite these efforts , the city confirmed its 27th case on April 11 - the first since March 26 .
The man had not travelled abroad or come into contact with other known patients , a worrying development suggesting the disease had taken root .
The number of cases in Touba has climbed steadily since then despite the intervention of the army , which is testing for COVID-19 , the respiratory disease caused by the new coronavirus , at a makeshift field hospital and decontaminating streets and markets .
“ Perhaps it ’s ignorance or even some denial of the disease , ” said Sylla Mbacke , head doctor at Touba ’s main health centre , Darou Marnane .
“ There are some that do n’t believe in it at all . ”
WORSHIPPERS TURNED AWAY
Touba appeared quieter than usual during a recent visit by Reuters , but despite government guidelines only a few people were wearing masks in the streets .
Some sought entry to the mosque for Friday prayers but were turned away .
Mbacke ’s centre is coping with the caseload , thanks in part to the army , which is helping to treat non - coronavirus patients .
But with no ventilators or intensive care beds , it could quickly become overwhelmed .
The World Health Organization has warned that Africa could become the next epicentre of the virus .
Senegal , which has recorded more than 1,700 cases and 19 deaths , last week ordered markets to close on certain days , while supermarkets must limit customer numbers .
At Touba ’s main market , ground zero for the second wave of cases , trader Abdoulaye Diagne said the new restrictions were making life difficult .
The market must now close at 3 p.m. , making it harder to earn a living , and residents are unable to gather to break their daily fast during the sacred month of Ramadan .
“ What can be done apart from pray for this disease to leave the planet , ” he said , as he packed up the plastic cups he had been selling to go home .
Reporting by Christophe Van der Perre ; Writing by Alessandra Prentice ;
Editing by Alex Richardson

India to restart some passenger trains even though coronavirus infections jump .
2020-05-11 08:54:50 +00:00 .
NEW DELHI ( Reuters ) -
India announced a limited re - opening of its giant rail network beginning on Tuesday after a nearly seven - week lockdown , despite also reporting its biggest single - day jump in coronavirus cases .
FILE PHOTO :
A migrant worker , who was stranded in the western state of Gujarat due to a lockdown imposed by the government to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , looks out from a train that will take him to his home state of eastern Bihar , in Ahmedabad , India , May 8 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Amit Dave Prime Minister Narendra Modi has faced increasing calls to end his government ’s stringent lockdown of the nation ’s 1.3 billion population , with political parties , businesses and citizens saying the containment measures have destroyed the livelihoods of millions that rely on daily wages for sustenance .
The shutdown , which has been repeatedly extended to stave off a surge in infections , is in force until May 17 .
Ahead of that , though , the railway ministry said it would gradually restart passenger services with 15 trains from Tuesday , connecting Delhi to Mumbai , Chennai , Bengaluru , Kolkata and other big cities .
“ Thereafter , Indian Railways shall start more special services on new routes , ” the government said in a statement .
The rail network , among the world ’s largest , carries over 20 million people each day and is the lifeline for people living in far flung corners of the country .
The announcement late on Sunday of the restart of some train service came on the same day India ’s coronavirus infections jumped by 4,214 , the most ever , to 67,152 .
India ’s rail , road , and air services were suspended in March to stop infections from spreading into the country ’s interior , but the number of cases has kept rising each day .
Officials say the spread of the disease would be worse if Modi ’s stringent restrictions had not been put in place .
The number of people who have died from COVID-19 , the respiratory disease caused by the coronavirus , has reached 2,206 , the ministry of health also said on Monday .
A fifth of India ’s cases of coronavirus come from the densely populated cities of Mumbai , Delhi , Ahmedabad and Pune , which are also major centres of economic activity .
Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said three - fourths of Delhi ’s cases of coronavirus were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms and did not need hospital treatment .
“ Overall corona figures ( are ) rising in Delhi but at the same time people are getting cured and going back home safe .
Now we ’ve to learn to live with corona , ” he said .
India ’s rising numbers of infections are also the result of increased testing , which has grown from 2,000 tests per day in late March , to 85,000 to 90,000 a day now , according to the Indian Council of Medical Research , the government ’s top body leading the fight against the disease .
Modi was due to hold a meeting with state chief ministers later on Monday to determine a path out of the lockdown even as infections spread .
Passengers taking the trains that will start up on Tuesday will have to wear masks and undergo screening at the stations , a government official said .
Reporting by Sanjeev Miglani ;
Editing by Tom Hogue

UPDATE 1-Indian bond yields surge as govt borrowing balloons .
2020-05-11 06:56:16 +00:00 .
( Updates with details , background , quotes )
By Swati Bhat MUMBAI , May 11 ( Reuters ) - India ’s benchmark 10 - year bond yield surged on Monday following the government ’s decision to sharply increase market borrowing amid a major hit to the economy and public finances from the coronavirus pandemic .
The government plans to borrow 12 trillion rupees ( $ 160 billion ) in the fiscal year to March 2021 , up from the previously budgeted 7.8 trillion rupees , to cushion the blow from the pandemic , it said on Friday .
The government did not specify whether the additional borrowing would be used to cover the revenue shortfall caused by a national lockdown since March 25 or used to fund additional expenditures .
However , analysts broadly believe the additional borrowing announced last week would push the government ’s fiscal deficit for the current year up to at least 5.5 % of GDP , 200 basis points above the current projection .
The benchmark 10 - year bond yield rose as much as 27 basis points to 6.24 % in opening deals and was last trading at 6.17 % at 0628 GMT .
The new 10 - year bond issued last week also climbed as much as 22 bps to 5.94 % .
Traders said yields were likely to settle around these levels in the near - term but a lack of any clear central bank guidance on whether it plans to support the market through additional bond purchases may push yields up further .
“ While we do not believe that private placements are ideal , depending on the market conditions , we think that the RBI will continue to provide some support through open market operations , as it has in recent weeks , without necessarily announcing an OMO ( open market operation ) schedule , ” Rahul Bajoria , an economist with Barclays , wrote in a note .
Traders said any OMO calendar or indication of RBI market support would be crucial .
“ There is new supply from Friday and nothing from the RBI so far .
But we should settle down around current levels for now and see how it goes , ” a senior trader at a private bank said .
Markets are also wary of borrowing being increased further later in the year and are eagerly awaiting a second stimulus plan that is expected to help small and medium businesses , to gauge the likely budget shortfall .
“ If the government decides to loosen its purse strings and releases any new stimulus , the slippages would further increase and would top up further the revised borrowing target , ” said Madhavi Arora , lead economist at Edelweiss Securities .
( Reporting by Swati Bhat ;
Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman and Sam Holmes )

Yemen declares Aden an 'infested' city as coronavirus spreads .
2020-05-11 06:23:56 +00:00 .
ADEN ( Reuters ) - Yemeni authorities declared Aden , interim seat of the Saudi - backed government , an “ infested ” city on Monday after the number of coronavirus cases there jumped to 35 , with four deaths .
A view of a street during a curfew amid concerns about the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Aden , Yemen April 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Wael al - Qubati
A five - year war has shattered Yemen ’s health system , pushed millions to the brink of famine and divided the country between the internationally recognised government and the Houthi group that ousted it from power in the capital , Sanaa , in late 2014 .
The Aden - based national coronavirus committee late on Sunday announced 17 new COVID-19 cases , 10 of them in the southern port city , to raise the total count in areas under the Saudi - backed government ’s control to 51 with eight deaths .
The Houthi movement , which controls Sanaa and most large urban centres , has only reported two cases , with one death .
The Aden - based government has accused Houthi authorities of covering up an outbreak in Sanaa , an accusation they deny .
The World Health Organization says there is full - blown transmission of the virus in Yemen , whose population has some of the lowest levels of immunity to disease compared with other countries .
Testing capabilities are inadequate .
The Aden - based committee said Aden had been declared an “ infested city ” due to the spread of the coronavirus and other diseases after recent flooding .
It said movement from Aden to other regions was barred with the exception of the transport of goods .
“ The administrative and political situation in Aden is also hampering efforts to combat the coronavirus and this should be remedied so relevant entities can carry out their duties , ” the committee said on its Twitter account .
CONFLICT
A major separatist group had on April 25 declared self - rule in Aden and other southern regions , threatening to renew a conflict with the Saudi - backed government in Yemen ’s multifaceted war .
The separatist Southern Transitional Council and the government of Abd - Rabbu Mansour Hadi are both part of the anti - Houthi coalition led by Saudi Arabia , but they turned on each other last year until Riyadh brokered a deal in late November .
Yemen has been mired in violence since the Western - backed coalition intervened in March 2015 against the Iran - aligned Houthi movement to restore Hadi ’s government to power in Sanaa .
The coalition had on April 24 extended by one month a nationwide ceasefire prompted by the coronavirus outbreak as the United Nations seeks to hold virtual talks to agree a permanent truce , coordinate coronavirus efforts and restart peace talks .
The conflict , largely seen in the region as a proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran , has killed more than 100,000 , left 80 % of the population , or 24 million , reliant on aid and some 10 million facing hunger .
The Houthis , who say they are fighting a corrupt system , have not formally accepted the truce though violence has abated .
Reporting by Mohammed Ghobari and Hesham Abdul Khalek ; Writing by Ghaida Ghantous ; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman ,
Robert Birsel

Singapore hawker won't let virus write 'tragic' end to family business .
2020-05-11 06:06:29 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) - Kristen Choong had accepted her family ’s decades - old noodle stall in Singapore would likely fold when she retires .
Hawker Kristen Choong wears a protective mask as she prepares ingredients with her mother Lai Yau Kiew at their Hong Lim Hawker Centre stall , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Singapore May 10 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Joseph Campbell
Now , battling a 90 % drop in business due to the coronavirus pandemic , she is constantly having to reassure customers that the stall will survive the next few months .
“ I really have ( to ) tell people , we ’re still here .
If we were n’t then it would be tragic ...
We’ll do our best to keep going , ” said 45 - year old Choong , who runs the Ji Ji Noodle House with her ageing mother .
Government orders last month for people to stay home to curb the disease abruptly halted a Singapore tradition of eating out at its more than 100 hawker centres - sprawling food courts serving up cheap regional cuisine .
This hawker culture - which has given rise to the world ’s cheapest Michelin - starred meals and been featured in movies like ‘ Crazy Rich Asians ’ - is being considered for UNESCO status .
Ji Ji was started by Choong ’s grandfather from a pushcart before it moved into Hong Lim Market in the 1970s when the government first built hawker centres to clean up the island .
The stall features in Michelin ’s Singapore food guide .
Choong said she has been given a three - month rent waiver from the government during the lockdown , and , like many others , has started food delivery to keep business going .
Even before the pandemic , Singapore ’s hawkers faced a problem .
Many are getting older and their better - educated sons and daughters are shunning cramped , sweaty kitchens for office jobs .
Choong took over from her mother , Lai Yau Kiew , but she said “ no one wants to inherit ” such a labour intensive job that involves boiling and frying wontons , vegetables , meat and noodles from 5 am to 10 pm every day .
“ My heart tells me to just take it one day at a time , ” said Lai , 69 , who comes by the stall every day to help her daughter .
Reporting by Joseph Campbell ;
Editing by John Geddie

Argentina debt deadlock remains as president says talks to continue .
2020-05-10 04:00:44 +00:00 .
BUENOS AIRES ( Reuters ) - Argentina ’s President Alberto Fernandez said on Saturday that talks with bondholders to restructure $ 65 billion of the country ’s foreign debt would continue with the two sides still deadlocked over what the final offer should look like .
FILE PHOTO :
Argentina 's President Alberto Fernandez looks on during the session of the 138th legislative term at the National Congress in Buenos Aires , Argentina March 1 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Agustin Marcarian / File Photo Fernandez , a center - left Peronist , tweeted that he and economy minister Martin Guzman continued to “ dialogue in good faith ” with creditors with the aim of reaching a sustainable agreement after a deadline to do so expired on Friday .
“ The possibility of extending the offer continues until Monday , May 11 , ” he wrote .
“ When this term expires we will define the steps to follow .
As always , our goal is to make commitments that we can meet . ”
Guzman added in a tweet : “ We thank the creditors who supported our proposal .
Until Monday there is time to extend it .
The dialogue continues in pursuit of an agreement that Argentina and its creditors can sustain . ”
Fernandez told a local radio station there could be counter - offers from creditors issued in the coming days after the deadline for accepting the government ’s initial proposal expired on Friday .
He indicated , however , that he was unlikely to shift his position much .
“ I am very firm in what we have proposed , ” he told radio station Futurock , adding that on the other side of the table were “ very unique personalities from the world of finance . ”
“ This time we have a kind of endorsement from the main auditor of world finance , the ( International Monetary ) Fund . ”
Fernandez and Guzman , who met for breakfast on Saturday , had proposed a three - year payment hiatus , a major cut to coupon payments and pushing maturities on the bonds included back to 2030 and beyond on the foreign debt .
The deal is aimed at avoiding a messy default that would revive memories of an acrimonious , more than decade - long battle with creditors after a major default in 2001 .
Argentina faces a $ 500 million interest payment on May 22 when a 30 - day grace period expires , which if not met would tip the country into default .
Few are confident about widespread support for the government offer , since three of the principal creditor groups have already rejected it .
“ Now , we have a void , which was the worst possible outcome .
Guzman is in a difficult position , ” Gabriel Zelpo , director of Buenos Aires economic consultancy Seido , told Reuters .
“ He has lost the game of chicken .
So , he will have to improve his proposal . ”
Argentina ’s financial situation has been complicated by a nationwide quarantine announced on March 20 to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus .
Fernandez on Friday night announced the lockdown would be extended until May 24 , though restrictions would be loosened outside the capital Buenos Aires .
The president has said repeatedly that he is mindful of the economic toll the shutdown is taking , but that preserving life was more important .
Fernandez added in his radio interview on Saturday that “ nobody wants to default , ” but that given the tough global situation , it was not only Argentina that faced the risk of missed payments .
Reporting by Aislinn Laing and Lucila Sigal ;
Editing by Adam Jourdan , Daniel Wallis and Chris Reese

Kuwait imposes 20-day 'total curfew' from May 10 to curb coronavirus .
2020-05-08 21:26:26 +00:00 .
KUWAIT ( Reuters ) - Kuwait will enact a “ total curfew ” from 4 pm ( 1300 GMT ) on Sunday through to May 30 to help to curb the spread of the new coronavirus , its cabinet said in a statement on Friday .
FILE PHOTO :
Repatriated Kuwaitis from Amman , wearing protective face masks and suits , are seen after arriving at the Kuwait Airport , following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Kuwait City , Kuwait April 21 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Stephanie McGehee
During the curfew , public sectors will work remotely and private sector activities , excluding vital ones , will be suspended , the statement said .
All banks will be closed , but will continue to provide services electronically .
Essential sectors like health , security , electricity , oil and municipal services , as well as private sector companies providing vital services like maintenance will be exempt from the curfew , interior minister Anas al - Saleh said in a televised news conference later on Friday .
Kuwait on April 20 expanded a nationwide curfew to 16 hours a day , from 4 pm to 8 am , and extended a suspension of work in the public sector , including government ministries , until May 31 .
“ Anything that serves the citizens and expatriates at their homes and meets their needs will have all the possibilities to continue their operations , ” said Kuwait ’s minister of trade and industry , Khaled Al - Rawdan .
“ After the curfew , we hope there will be a gradual comeback , ” he added .
Cooperatives and grocery stores will remain open during the curfew .
People will have to book an appointment in advance and one person from each family will be allowed out for shopping .
People will be required to wear protective masks and will be able to go out for walks between 4:30 and 6:30 p.m. without using any vehicles .
In addition , print newspapers will be suspended and home deliveries will be allowed only for essential food and pharmaceutical supplies .
On Friday the Gulf state announced 641 new coronavirus cases and three deaths , bringing its total number of confirmed cases to 7,208 , with 47 deaths .
The number of cases in the six Gulf Arab states has risen steadily to almost 86,000 , with 486 deaths , despite containment measures including curfews , the grounding of passenger flights and the closure of most public venues .
The number of coronavirus cases in Saudi Arabia exceeded 35,000 on Friday .
Reporting by Ahmed Haggagy in Kuwait and Ahmed Tolba and Hesham Abdul Khalek in Cairo ; Writing by Lisa Barrington and Marwa Rashad ;
Editing by Alison Williams , David Goodman and Bill Berkrot

A united front takes aim at police immunity from lawsuits .
2020-05-08 10:37:20 +00:00 .
A member of the New York Police Department works during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Manhattan , New York City , U.S. , March 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Andrew Kelly ( Reuters ) -
The diverse opponents of qualified immunity have thrown their weight behind at least five appeals now awaiting the Supreme Court ’s attention , each considered a potential means of removing or softening the doctrine .
One of them is the case of Alexander Baxter , a homeless man arrested in Nashville , Tennessee , during a Jan. 8 , 2014 , home break - in .
By Baxter ’s account , he had already put up his hands in surrender when police released a service dog that then rushed Baxter and bit him , resulting in an injury that required hospital treatment .
The officers said they did not see his hands raised before they released the dog .
While serving the 12 - year prison sentence arising from his conviction for attempted theft on the night of the alleged attack , Baxter – originally representing himself – sued the cops in federal court , alleging that they used excessive force by setting the dog on him .
A federal district court judge hearing Baxter ’s case allowed it to move forward .
But in a Nov. 8 , 2018 , ruling , the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati , Ohio , granted the officers immunity .
Baxter then petitioned the Supreme Court to overturn the lower court .
“ I felt like the officers were wrongly getting away with spilling my blood , ” Baxter told Reuters in a handwritten letter sent from prison in Tennessee .
Now , the liberal American Civil Liberties Union and the libertarian Cato Institute are providing legal support for Baxter .
The Alliance Defending Freedom , a conservative Christian advocacy group , the NAACP Legal Defense Educational Fund , a civil rights group , and a diverse collection of legal scholars are also backing some of the cases awaiting the high court ’s attention .
In the Baxter petition , one of 11 qualified immunity appeals the Supreme Court plans to discuss on May 15 , the ACLU has explicitly asked the justices to consider whether qualified immunity should be “ narrowed or abolished . ”
Cato , meanwhile , has filed friend - of - the - court briefs for Baxter ’s case and others like it as part of a campaign to end qualified immunity .
If the justices were to take up Baxter ’s case or another like it , the ACLU , Cato and other foes of qualified immunity are ready with arguments that the doctrine is improperly and inconsistently applied ; that it has no basis in civil rights law ; and that its purported benefits – to avoid second - guessing officers or saddling them with distracting lawsuits – do not justify trampling civil rights .
The critics do not universally agree on what could replace the doctrine , or , if the justices refuse to abolish it , how it can be improved .
Some suggest removing protections for officers that have been built up over years to avoid disclosing evidence , for instance , or assessing whether they acted in good faith .
Others call for a rethink of the two - question test for deciding requests for qualified immunity .
“ I do n’t know we know the right answer yet , ” said Emma Andersson , the lead ACLU lawyer on the Baxter appeal .
Edited by John Blanton and Janet Roberts .

Zoom pushes ahead on security, buying Keybase and reaching pact with New York .
2020-05-07 20:30:53 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Zoom Video Communications Inc pushed forward on Thursday in its effort to revamp its security , striking a deal with the New York attorney general ’s office to protect users ’ privacy and purchasing secure messaging startup Keybase .
FILE PHOTO :
A 3D printed Zoom logo is placed on the keyboard in this illustration taken April 12 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Dado Ruvic / Illustration
The company , which has faced backlash for failing to disclose that its service was not fully end - to - end encrypted said it planned to develop tools that will give more controls to meeting hosts and allow users to securely join a meeting and submit them to external review .
Zoom has been one of the big beneficiaries of coronavirus lockdowns , with millions of workers and students using its video platform as they work and study from home .
The company said here it had bought Keybase , a secure messaging and file - sharing service , for an undisclosed price as it seeks engineering expertise to deliver more robust encryption for its conferencing platform .
Separately , New York ’s attorney general , Letitia James , announced an agreement with Zoom over a range of issues , including enhanced privacy for educational accounts and updates to Zoom ’s policy on abusive conduct .
Shares of Zoom were up 5 % at $ 157 , after rising earlier as much as 8 % .
Zoom said it was preparing a draft design of its encryption policy to be released May 22 , when it plans to host discussions with cryptographic experts and customers , and integrate feedback into a final design before rolling the feature out to users .
" We are also investigating mechanisms that would allow enterprise users to provide additional levels of authentication , " Chief Executive Officer Eric Yuan wrote in a blog post here Founded in 2014 , Keybase here is an encrypted messaging platform that allows users to securely swap data and cryptographically verify one another 's identities on social media .
But while Zoom has seen an extraordinary jump in users , now numbering 300 million participants a day , since the coronavirus crisis forced millions of people and students to work from home , security has an issue .
Concerns about the security of Zoom ’s platform have led companies including Elon Musk ’s SpaceX and Sweden ’s Ericsson to ban employees from using the platform .
New York public schools had also restricted teachers and students from using the platform , though the ban was recently rescinded .
Zoom ’s security push is part of a 90 - day plan that has included hiring former Facebook security chief Alex Stamos and other known industry figures while launching new versions of its software with better encryption .
The campaign has generally won plaudits from security experts .
James , the New York attorney general , said her office and Zoom “ have worked cooperatively and quickly to implement more stringent and robust protections for consumers , schools , and businesses . ”
Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee in Bengaluru ; Additional reporting by Raphael Satter in Washington ;
Editing by Leslie Adler

Texas governor bans jail time for coronavirus lockdown violations .
2020-05-07 18:28:43 +00:00 .
AUSTIN , Texas ( Reuters ) - Texas Governor Greg Abbott on Thursday banned the jailing of anybody in the state who defied his orders to shut businesses due to the coronavirus pandemic , a move that followed an outcry over the arrest and incarceration of a Dallas salon owner .
FILE PHOTO : Texas Governor Greg Abbott speaks at the annual National Rifle Association ( NRA ) convention in Dallas , Texas , U.S. , May 4 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Lucas Jackson “ Throwing Texans in jail who have had their businesses shut down through no fault of their own is nonsensical , and I will not allow it to happen , ” Abbott , a Republican , said in a written statement .
The Texas Supreme Court held up Abbott ’s order , which was issued two days after Shelley Luther was arrested and put in the Dallas County jail for opening her business , Salon à la Mode , on April 24 in defiance of a closure order across the state .
Luther was sentenced to serve one week as punishment .
She was expected to be freed later on Thursday .
The order will also benefit two women who were arrested last month in Laredo , Texas , for providing salon services and arrested during what local authorities called a sting operation .
The two women were already free on bond .
Luther ’s case became a rallying cause for protesters and others in Texas who want to see the state open up faster .
Texas , which has one of the lowest per - capita death rates in the country from COVID-19 , the respiratory illness caused by the novel coronavirus , is in the vanguard of states seeking to restart the economy despite the pandemic .
Restaurants , retailers and other stores reopened this week - but under conditions that they only allow in 25 % of normal capacity .
Salons across Texas will be able to open again on Friday as part of the reopening plan .
Luther ’s salon and all others across the state were closed on March 22 because of the pandemic .
She publicly railed against Abbott ’s orders then , saying she and her salon staff could not feed their kids without income .
Luther reopened her salon on April 24 .
A day later , surrounded by boisterous supporters calling for businesses to reopen , Luther tore up a cease and desist order she had received from a Dallas County judge ordering her to close her shop .
She kept her salon open .
Dallas County Judge Eric Moye on Tuesday said during a hearing that he would not order Luther jailed if she acknowledged that her actions were selfish and apologized .
“ I have to disagree with you sir , when you say that I ’m selfish because feeding my kids is not selfish , ” Luther said , refusing to apologize .
Reporting by Brad Brooks ;
Editing by Paul Simao

Georgia to lift lockdown in Tbilisi on Monday .
2020-05-07 16:04:31 +00:00 .
TBILISI ( Reuters ) - Georgia will lift its lockdown in the capital Tbilisi and allow shops to reopen on Monday as part of a gradual easing of coronavirus restrictions , Prime Minister Giorgi Gakharia said .
He told a televised cabinet meeting on Thursday that a lockdown imposed in another large city , Rustavi , would be lifted on May 14 .
The country would reopen to foreign tourists from July 1 , with domestic tourism resuming from June 15 .
Tbilisi , Rustavi , Batumi and Kutaisi were locked down on April 15 , with bans on vehicles entering or leaving .
Batumi and Kutaisi were released last week .
Georgia still has a state of emergency until May 22 , which includes a night curfew , the closure of restaurants , cafes and most shops , the suspension of public transport and a ban on gatherings of more than three people .
Grocery stores , pharmacies and petrol stations remain open .
Gakharia said retail and wholesale stores , except those selling clothing and footwear , would reopen on May 11 , provided they were not located in shopping malls .
The construction and automotive sectors were allowed to resume on May 5 .
Georgia reported 615 cases of the coronavirus as of Thursday , with nine deaths .
Georgia should promote itself as a safe destination to attract tourists after restrictions are lifted , Economy Minister Natia Turnava said .
“ The world knew us as a country with an ancient hospitality tradition , now the world should recognise us as a safe country destination , ” Turnava said .
Tourism in Georgia was booming but the coronavirus dealt a savage blow to an industry that attracted millions every year .
Five million tourists visited Georgia in 2019 , 7 % up from the previous year .
International travel income was $ 3.3 billion last year and the sector ’s share in the country ’s gross domestic product was 11.5 % .
Turnava said enterprises linked to tourism would be given income and property tax breaks , while a refund of value - added tax for companies would be doubled to 1.2 billion lari ( $ 375 million ) .
Individuals and tourism - related companies will be permitted to defer interest on bank loans for four months , while self - employed workers in the sector and those forced to take unpaid leave would get financial aid from the state .

'No discount': Van der Sar adamant Ajax won't be bullied in transfer market .
2020-05-07 15:38:58 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Ajax Amsterdam are not immune to the financial strain caused by the COVID-19 pandemic , but they will not be strong - armed into cut - price deals for their players in the upcoming transfer window , chief executive Edwin van der Sar said .
FILE PHOTO :
Soccer Football - Europa League - Round of 32 Second Leg - Ajax Amsterdam v Getafe - Johan Cruijff Arena , Amsterdam , Netherlands - February 27 , 2020
Ajax chief executive officer Edwin van der Sar before the match REUTERS /
Eva Plevier / File Photo
The Dutch club have built a reputation as the ‘ talent factory ’ of European football over the last two decades and earned about 150 million euros ( $ 161.7 million ) last summer as Frenkie de Jong and Matthijs de Ligt secured high - profile moves to Barcelona and Juventus , respectively .
“ In January last year , people said we were going to lose seven or eight players but we lost only two key members , ” Van der Sar told Reuters .
“ The big clubs such as Bayern Munich have said the benchmark fee will go down in the next few transfer windows .
But it ’s easier for them to say because they are the buyers .
“ Of course , the 150 million-200 million euros transfers are gone .
But I think there is still a lot of value for players who come from Ajax .
Well educated , experienced in winning and playing European football . ”
Ajax have agreed to sell playmaker Hakim Ziyech to Chelsea in a deal worth 40 million euros , while midfield dynamo Donny van de Beek , left back Nicolas Tagliafico and goalkeeper Andre Onana are on the radar of clubs in England , Germany and Spain .
Van der Sar said there would be no fire sale this year .
“ Last year , we made verbal agreements with Onana , Tagliafico , Van de Beek to stay another season and then we look to help each other and find the next step in their careers .
Nothing has changed , ” he added .
“ There wo n’t be a 50 % discount .
The clubs can forget about that . ”
FINANCIAL HIT
The Dutch FA ( KNVB ) ended the 2019 - 20 top - flight campaign last month after the government extended a ban on public events to Sept. 1 to limit the spread of the coronavirus .
League leaders Ajax missed out on a record - extending 35th title as a result , but were awarded qualification for next season ’s Champions League .
Van der Sar said missing out on gate receipts from games that had been cancelled and the prospect of playing without fans when football resumes , meant Ajax would have a bumpy ride in the coming months .
“ We ’ll be taking a big hit financially when it comes to ticketing revenue and the corporate market , ” he added .
“ Right now it ’s about making projections .
It can be half a season without fans or the whole of next season .
We ’ll then have to talk to the players and staff once we have a full understanding of the financial situation at the club . ”
Meanwhile , domestic leagues in England , Spain , Germany and Italy are still grappling with the ongoing crisis as they look for ways to complete the current campaign .
All eyes will be on the German Bundesliga , which has announced that it will restart the season on May 16 .
“ I think they will face many difficulties , ” Van der Sar added .
“ I ’m sure there ’ll be a lot of players and coaches who will be scared of the possibilities .
In some cases , the players , the clubs and the directors do n’t share the same point of view . ”
( $ 1 = 0.9278 euros )
Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Christian Radnedge

UPDATE 3-Hong Kong stock exchange CEO Li to step down next year .
2020-05-07 13:27:31 +00:00 .
* Li says decision to step down unrelated to failed LSE bid * Will step down in Oct 2021 or earlier if successor is found * HKEX investment loss overshadows 45 % jump in trading fees
* Stock Connect achieves record turnover ( Recasts , adds detail and quotes )
By Alun John
HONG KONG , May 7 ( Reuters ) -
Charles Li will step down as head of the Hong Kong stock exchange by October next year , the bourse said on Thursday , kick - starting a search for a successor with his ability to balance the wishes of international institutions , local players and Beijing .
Dubbed by some as Mr China , the boss of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing ( HKEX ) built ties with Chinese mainland markets , attracted major companies to the bourse and oversaw the 2012 acquisition of the London Metal Exchange , though last year ’s failed bid for the London Stock Exchange ( LSE ) removed some of the gloss from his 10 - year reign .
The decision to flag his planned departure was unrelated to the failed $ 39 billion LSE bid , Li said as HKEX reported a 13 % drop in first - quarter net profit , underperforming rival Asian exchanges after investment losses outweighed higher trading fees .
New listings and the 2014 launch of Stock Connect , which links Hong Kong with the Shanghai and Shenzhen bourses , have provided a hefty boost to trading on the Hong Kong exchange during Li ’s tenure , though volumes were dented by the anti - government protests in Hong Kong last year .
The pace of reforms has also slowed in recent years , with plans for other China - linked products including derivatives based on onshore Chinese shares seemingly stalled .
One of the longest serving exchange CEOs globally , Li is well known for his colourful metaphors , comparing the bourse to everything from a wolf pack to a poorly armed traffic cop .
He described HKEX ’s bid for the LSE as a “ a corporate tale of Romeo and Juliet ” .
Last year he netted about $ 21.4 million by selling roughly half of his HKEX shares .
HKEX said Li would step down from as CEO in October 2021 , at the end of his current term , or earlier if a successor is appointed before then .
The company has appointed a committee to find his successor , it said .
CHALLENGES AHEAD
Li ’s departure , however , raises questions around succession planning and HKEX ’s strategic direction , Citi analyst Tian Yafei wrote in a research note .
“ However , should a new CEO who could build long term goodwill with mainland regulators be appointed , some of the pending initiatives could be approved , ” Tian added , referring to the previously planned reforms .
The company ’s first - quarter profit fall is in contrast to results from rivals including the Singapore exchange , where profits have risen on the back of higher trading volumes .
HKEX ’s net profit dropped to HK$2.26 billion ( $ 291.6 million ) even as headline average daily trading turnover jumped 20 % amid high market volatility triggered by the coronavirus pandemic , pushing up trading fee income by 45 % .
The gains , however , were outweighed by a HK$47 million loss on investments , compared with gains of HK$882 million a year earlier , hit by a market rout as the pandemic spread .
Stock Connect achieved record turnover in the first three months of the year in terms of international investors buying mainland China - listed shares and mainland investors buying Hong Kong - listed shares .
( $ 1 = 7.7510 Hong Kong dollars )
( Reporting by Alun John
Additional reporting by Twinnie Siu Editing by Andrew Cawthorne and David Goodman )

China trade data lifts futures ahead of jobless claims .
2020-05-07 11:03:23 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - U.S. stock index futures jumped on Thursday as a surprise rise in Chinese exports spurred hopes of a faster economic recovery , even as investors braced for data likely to show millions more Americans filed for unemployment benefits last week .
FILE PHOTO :
The New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) is seen in the financial district of lower Manhattan during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in New York City , U.S. , April 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Jeenah Moon Wall Street has rebounded sharply from a coronavirus - fueled selloff in March , helped by massive monetary and fiscal stimulus and , more recently , hard - hit states reopening businesses following sweeping lockdowns .
China ’s overseas shipments in April rose for the first time this year as factories raced to make up for lost sales .
However , with the SP 500 now about 16 % below its record high , the mood has turned cautious again with data revealing the extent of the pandemic ’s economic damage and U.S.-China tensions resurfacing over the origin of the novel coronavirus .
A report on Thursday said Sino - U.S. negotiators will hold a phone call as early as next week to discuss progress in implementing a Phase 1 trade deal after President Donald Trump threatened to end it if China was not adhering to the terms .
Later in the day , data is expected to show U.S. jobless claims totaling a seasonally adjusted 3 million for the week ended May 2 , down from 3.839 million in the prior week and marking the fifth straight weekly decrease in applications .
Among early movers before the bell , PayPal Holdings Inc ( PYPL.O ) jumped 7.7 % after the payment processor said it expected a strong recovery in payments volumes in the second quarter as social distancing drives more people to shop online .
Lyft Inc ( LYFT.O ) surged 14.9 % as the ride - hailing company posted higher - than - expected revenue and vowed to further cut costs to become profitable .
At 05:50 a.m. ET , Dow e - minis 1YMcv1 were up 315 points , or 1.34 % , SP 500 e - minis EScv1 were up 42.5 points , or 1.5 % and Nasdaq 100w e - minis NQcv1 were up 142 points , or 1.59 % .
SPDR SP 500 ETFs ( SPY.P ) were up 1.27 % .
The SP 500 index .SPX closed down 0.7 % at 2,848.42​ on Wednesday .
Reporting by C Nivedita and Medha Singh in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Shounak Dasgupta

Indonesia's Ramadan school moves online amid coronavirus epidemic .
2020-05-07 10:00:46 +00:00 .
JAKARTA ( Reuters ) -
Each year during the fasting month of Ramadan , Indonesian tutor Ahmad Winardi has taught a special course for students in the world ’s biggest Muslim - majority country to deepen their knowledge of Islam .
FILE PHOTO :
A tutor Ahmad Winardi gestures as he teaches the Koran online through a smartphone during an intensive Islamic boarding school known as ÒPesantran KilatÓ on the holy fasting month of Ramadan amid the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Jakarta , Indonesia , April 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Yuddy Cahya Budiman
But this year , the novel coronavirus has brought a Ramadan like never before , with shuttered mosques and strict physical distancing regulations , and so Winardi has moved his Islamic studies online .
One consequence is that the courses , previously held only in cities on the islands of Java and Sumatra , have this year attracted a wider range of students in the archipelago , including from Indonesian Borneo .
“ Due to COVID-19 , we ’re restricted from activities outside our houses so we started the online Islamic course , ” said Gemia Indria , one of the organisers .
“ And it turns out online teaching removes geographical barriers , so we can reach out to more participants . ”
Known as “ Pesantran Kilat ” , which loosely translates as “ intensive Islamic boarding school ” , the course teaches students about Islam , as well as creative ways to recite the Koran , such as through hand gestures .
The gestures , Winardi explained , can act as fun prompts to help primary school students , most aged from 6 to 12 years old , recall religious verses .
“ The chemistry is absolutely different as we do n’t meet in person , ” Winardi said of the online lessons .
“ But we try some ice - breaking activities , such as shouting ‘ God is greatest ’ .
Hopefully it encourages them to memorise the Koran . ”
Joining the class from the capital , Jakarta , alongside classmates from South Sumatra and West Java , Muhammad Umar Abdurrahman , 11 , said he enjoyed the lesson , although his father saw room for improvement , such as more comprehensive course material .
Most residents of Jakarta have been staying home since March 20 as part of social distancing measures , which have seen schools and businesses close , and gatherings of more than five people banned until May 22 .
Indonesia , which has the highest coronavirus death toll in East Asia outside China , has reported more than 12,000 coronavirus cases and 872 deaths , as of on Tuesday .

BT scraps dividend, invests in fibre as rivals agree merger .
2020-05-07 08:45:24 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Britain ’s biggest telecoms group BT ( BT.L ) suspended its dividend and said it would spend billions more on faster fibre broadband connections , on the day two of its major competitors announced plans to merge .
FILE PHOTO :
Logo of British Telecom ( BT ) is displayed outside a store in London , Britain , November 15 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Simon Dawson
The company said the saving from suspending its dividend until 2021/22 would see it through the expected financial crash caused by the coronavirus pandemic , which is leading to lower revenue from sports customers , reduced business activity and more cautious spending from multinational customers .
It will also help fund a 12 billion pound ( $ 15 billion ) plan to upgrade its legacy copper network to full fibre .
If the conditions are right , BT said it could reach 20 million premises by the mid to late 2020s , 5 million more than it had targeted .
On the day rivals Telefonica ( TEF.MC ) and Liberty Global ( LBTYA.O ) announced plans to merger their British units to build a stronger challenger , BT also set out plans for a new five - year programme to modernise the business .
Chief Executive Philip Jansen said the coronavirus pandemic , which has seen a surge in the use of mobile phones and data , had brought BT ’s national leadership in telecoms into the sharpest focus in its history , and while upgrading the network had been important before , it was now “ a matter of extreme urgency ” .
Therefore , the dividend - one of the biggest on the London stock exchange - had to be pulled .
“ This was a tough decision , but although hard on shareholders , a necessary one so that we can allocate capital for value - enhancing investments , ” he told reporters .
“ It will also allow us to manage confidently through the coronavirus crisis . ”
He said the impact of the pandemic would only become clearer as the economic consequences unfolded over the next 12 months .
“ Due to COVID-19 , BT is not providing guidance for 2020/21 , at this time , ” he added , referring to the respiratory disease caused by the new coronavirus .
Shares in BT , which were yielding 13.5 % based on the 15.4 pence full - year dividend the company had planned to pay , were down 4.5 % at 108.5 pence at 0735 GMT .
BT ’s new efficiency programme will cost 1.3 billion pounds to achieve , but will deliver annualised gross benefits of 2 billion pounds by March 2025 as it switches off many legacy programmes and uses new technologies to improve .
The company , which owns the EE mobile network and Britain ’s biggest fixed - line network under its Openreach unit , said it expected to resume dividend payments at 7.7 pence per share .
BT ’s adjusted revenues for 2019/20 fell 3 % to 22.8 billion pounds and core earnings dropped 3 % to 7.9 billion pounds , both meeting market expectations .
Reporting by Kate Holton and Paul Sandle ; editing by Guy Faulconbridge and Mark Potter

U.S. Supreme Court's Ginsburg discharged from hospital .
2020-05-07 02:38:19 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg , at 87 the U.S. Supreme Court ’s oldest member , was discharged on Wednesday from hospital where she was treated for a benign gall bladder condition and took part remotely in arguments in two cases .
FILE PHOTO :
U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg speaks during a reception where she was presented with an honorary doctoral degree at the University of Buffalo School of Law in Buffalo , New York , U.S. , August 26 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Lindsay DeDario / File Photo
In a statement released on Wednesday evening , court spokeswoman Kathy Arberg said Ginsburg is “ doing well and glad to be home ” after being discharged from Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore .
Earlier in the day , her participation in two arguments , conducted by teleconference amid the coronavirus pandemic , marked the latest instance in which the liberal justice withstood a health scare and returned swiftly to her duties on the court , where she has served since 1993 .
Ginsburg asked a number of questions and her voice sounded hesitant at times but largely remained firm .
Ginsburg will return to the Baltimore hospital for outpatient visits in the following weeks , and a gallstone that caused the infection will be removed without the need for a surgical procedure , Arberg added .
Ginsburg was treated for pancreatic cancer last year .
The first case involved an Obamacare requirement regarding health insurance coverage for women ’s birth control .
The second involved a federal law cracking down on so - called robocalls .
In the first case , Ginsburg posed lengthy questions expressing doubt over a bid by President Donald Trump ’s administration to implement rules allowing employers to obtain religious exemptions from the contraception mandate .
She told the administration ’s lawyer , Solicitor General Noel Francisco , that it has “ tossed entirely to the wind what Congress considered to be essential , that women be provided this service , with no hassle and no cost to them . ”
On Tuesday , Ginsburg was treated for an inflammatory condition of the gallbladder known as acute cholecystitis .
Her hospitalization could have posed a risk as it comes amid a pandemic that continues to surge throughout the United States and around the world .
The coronavirus has proven to be particularly dangerous in elderly people , especially those with underlying medical issues .
Ginsburg has had several health scares in recent years .
In November 2018 , she broke three ribs in a fall .
Subsequent medical tests led to treatment for lung cancer that caused her to miss arguments in January 2019 .
She returned to the bench , but in August 2019 received radiation therapy to treat pancreatic cancer .
She was hospitalized last November for two nights suffering from a fever and chills but returned to work at the court the day after being released .
Her health is closely watched because a Supreme Court vacancy would give Republican President Donald Trump the opportunity to appoint a third justice to the nine - member court and move it further to the right .
The court currently has a 5 - 4 conservative majority including two justices appointed by Trump .
Reporting by Lawrence Hurley ; Additional reporting by Andrew Chung ;
Editing by Will Dunham and Cynthia Osterman

Nobelist Stiglitz, economists from 20 countries back Argentina in debt showdown .
2020-05-06 18:57:20 +00:00 .
BUENOS AIRES ( Reuters ) - A group of 138 economists from 20 countries , including Nobel laureates Joseph Stiglitz and Edmund S. Phelps , urged Argentina ’s bondholders on Wednesday to take a “ constructive approach ” to the government ’s debt restructuring proposal .
FILE PHOTO :
Nobel Prize - winning economist Joseph Stiglitz ( L ) and Argentina 's Economy Minister Martin Guzman arrive for a conference hosted by the Vatican on economic solidarity , at the Vatican , February 5 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Remo Casilli
“ The onus is on private creditors to act , ” said the open letter signed by Nobel Prize winners Stiglitz and Phelps along with other well - known experts , including Jeffrey Sachs , Carmen Reinhart and Thomas Piketty .
The economists argue in the letter that Argentina ’s top spending priority is to protect its citizens from the health and economic fallout caused by the coronavirus crisis rather than pay back creditors who knew they were taking a big risk by buying high - yielding Argentine paper .
The government is out to revamp about $ 65 billion in “ unsustainable ” international bonds .
But some major holders have balked at Argentina ’s proposal to impose big cuts in coupon payments , a three - year payment hiatus and a push back of maturities into the next decade .
Bondholders have until Friday to respond .
It is part of a broad debt restructuring with creditors , including the International Monetary Fund and Paris Club of country - to - country lenders .
The country was already in recession before going on lockdown against the pandemic on March 20 .
Argentine Economy Minister Martin Guzman worked with Stiglitz at Columbia University in New York before returning to his native country to manage the restructuring of bonds issued by Argentina ’s previous government .
“ Argentina has presented a responsible offer to creditors that reflects the country ’s capacity to pay , ” the economists ’ letter said .
If the government fails to clinch a deal it could risk a painful default , with a grace period to pay around $ 500 million on three separate dollar bonds set to expire on May 22 .
The prospect of securing an agreement by Friday darkened after a trio of major creditor groups rejected Argentina ’s offer , and Guzman acknowledged that reaching a consensus had “ proven difficult . ”
The letter pointed out that creditors knew they were making a risky investment when they bought Argentine paper , which is why the country was paying higher than normal interest rates .
On the other hand , Ted Pincus , a managing director at Mangart Capital Advisors , said the rates that Argentina had been paying were not high for a country with its poor credit history .
A default this month would be the country ’s ninth .
The most recent non - payment stemmed from a 2002 financial meltdown that tossed millions of middle - class Argentines into poverty .
“ The sustainability of debt depends on government policy and credibility , ” Pincus said .
The economists ’ letter says both Argentina and its creditors would benefit from negotiating a sustainable debt revamp deal as the coronavirus crisis pummels global economic activity and the ability of governments to pay their debts .
“ Pressure on public finances has become enormous , particularly in developing countries that were already highly indebted , ” the letter says .
Guzman tweeted that he appreciated the economists ’ support .
“ Argentina remains optimistic that we can reach an agreement with our creditors that can restore the sustainability of our debt and make economic recovery after Covid-19 possible , ” the tweet said .
Reporting by Hugh Bronstein ; Additional reporting by Marc Jones in London ;
Editing by David Gregorio , Jonathan Oatis and Bernadette Baum

Turkey to host Champions League final in August, resume leagues on June 12 .
2020-05-06 13:47:29 +00:00 .
ANKARA ( Reuters ) -
Turkey plans to host the Champions League final in late August , the head of its football federation said on Wednesday , and will resume domestic soccer leagues without fans on June 12 after a three - month suspension caused by the coronavirus outbreak .
Soccer Football - Super Lig - Galatasaray v Besiktas - Turk Telekom Stadium , Istanbul , Turkey - March 15 , 2020 General view before the match as the match will be played behind closed doors as the number of coronavirus cases grow around the world
REUTERS /
Umit Bektas Two months ago European soccer ’s governing body UEFA had indefinitely postponed the Champions League showpiece , which had been scheduled to be played in Istanbul on May 30 .
Turkish Football Federation ( TFF ) chairman Nihat Ozdemir said Europe ’s elite club final was being planned for the end of August , but that details on the format and timing would be finalised after talks with health officials and UEFA .
“ God willing , we will complete our own leagues at the end of July .
We will hand over our cups on the pitch and then we will cap the season off by hosting the UEFA Champions League final in August , ” Ozdemir told a televised news conference .
He said Turkish soccer leagues , including the top tier Super Lig , would resume from June 12 without spectators and finish on July 26 .
The Super Lig schedule will involve 7 weekend games and 1 weekday match , he said .
Ozdemir added that teams will play matches in their own cities and stadiums , despite concerns this may risk a renewed surge of coronavirus cases in some areas .
Istanbul , the epicentre of the outbreak in Turkey , hosts the three biggest Turkish clubs and Basaksehir .
Earlier this week , Turkey ’s top soccer clubs resumed limited training sessions in accordance with measures set out by the TFF last week .
Fenerbahce , Besiktas , and reigning champions Galatasaray all held sessions in small groups .
Trabzonspor , who were league leaders when matches were suspended , also returned to the pitch this week .
Shares of all four clubs rose after the decision to resume the league .
Almost two months after reporting its first case , Turkey has said the outbreak has reached a plateau .
On Monday , it began to ease some measures to restart the economy , as the daily number of deaths and new cases continued a downward trajectory .
Turkey has reported 3,520 deaths from the coronavirus since the outbreak begun on March 11 .
It has nearly 130,000 confirmed cases , the highest total outside Western Europe , the United States , and Russia .
Reporting by Tuvan Gumrukcu and Ece Toksabay ; Editing by Dominic Evans and
Ken Ferris

Exclusive: Greece delays asset sales as coronavirus impact hits prices .
2020-05-06 13:32:21 +00:00 .
ATHENS ( Reuters ) - Greece will raise only a fraction of what it initially expected from privatisations this year , as the coronavirus downturn has forced it to put planned asset sales on hold to avoid low offers .
FILE PHOTO :
A view of the main entrance of the former international Hellenikon airport in Athens , Greece , July 16 , 2017 .
Picture taken July 16 , 2017 .
REUTERS /
Costas Baltas / File Photo Athens expects privatisation revenues of between 350 million and 400 million euros this year , the head of its privatisation agency Aris Xenofos told Reuters on Wednesday , well below the 2.4 billion euros ( $ 2.6 billion ) it had originally targeted .
Asset sales are important for Greece , which has been bailed out three times and emerged from a decade - long debt crisis in 2018 , as it seeks to attract investment to restart its economy and lower public debt , one of the highest in the euro zone .
Greece expects to wrap up a long - delayed lease of its former Athens airport site , known as the Hellenikon project , for 300 million euros by the end of the year as originally expected .
Plans to turn the sprawling , abandoned plot , which was the site of Olympic venues in 2004 , into one of Europe ’s biggest tourist resort have been mired for years in bureaucracy .
But it has decided to push back tenders launched for three projects to avoid a lower valuation being put on the assets as a result of market uncertainty and a global economic slowdown triggered by the coronavirus crisis .
Greece had hoped to get binding bids for a 30 % stake in its biggest airport , full control of gas network DEPA Infrastructure and a majority stake in gas supplier DEPA Commercial .
“ Right now there is a market risk which would be inevitably reflected on the offers we would get , ” Xenofos said , adding that social distancing measures are also getting in the way of the process , which would normally involve site visits and meetings .
“ We would n’t rush , for any reason , into actions that would get us offers much lower than the prices we are aiming at . ”
‘ GIVE IT MORE TIME ’
Lockdown measures Greece imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus grounded flights and froze economic activity , turning expectations for strong growth upside down as Athens now projects a deep 4.7 % to 8.9 % recession this year .
Xenofos said there was no specific time frame for the bids in the airport project , as the agency reviewed the situation month by month .
Nine investors have qualified for the sale and the submission of final offers was expected in the second quarter of the year.[nL8N2A04A0 ]
Nine foreign investors have also expressed interest for DEPA Infrastructure and another nine foreign and domestic investors for DEPA Commercial
[ nL8N2AL5B0 ] [ nL8N2BG83Z ] .
The agency will announce which investors qualify for the second stage of both asset sales by June , Xenofos said .
FILE PHOTO :
A Greek flag flutters over the main entrance of the former international Hellenikon airport in Athens , Greece , July 16 , 2017 .
Picture taken July 16 , 2017 .
REUTERS /
Costas Baltas / File Photo
The second stage includes site visits , due diligence and the submission of binding bids by short - listed investors and would normally take six to eight months .
“ Interested investors are still hot ... for all the assets , ” he said .
“ We ’ll give it more time to get things back to normal ” .
( $ 1 = 0.9256 euros )
Reporting by Angeliki Koutantou ;
Editing by Alexander Smith

Russian oil output falls near to OPEC+ target: sources .
2020-05-06 11:42:43 +00:00 .
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) - Russia ’s oil output in the first five days of May fell to 8.75 million barrels per day ( bpd ) , close to its production target of 8.5 million bpd for May and June under a global deal to cut crude supplies , two sources familiar with the data told Reuters .
FILE PHOTO :
Pump jacks are seen at the Ashalchinskoye oil field owned by Russia 's oil producer Tatneft near Almetyevsk , in the Republic of Tatarstan , Russia , July 27 , 2017 .
Picture taken July 27 , 2017 .
REUTERS / Sergei Karpukhin
Together with gas condensate , or light oil , which is not part of Russia ’s target , the country ’s output was 9.5 million bpd for May 1 - 5 , the first time it has fallen below 10 million bpd since August 2009 .
While the latest data , which showed production of 1.296 million tonnes per day including gas condensate , was only for the first few days since the deal kicked in on May 1 , it shows Russia is following through on its pledges so far .
Russia ’s energy ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
Reuters uses a ratio of 7.33 barrels per tonne to calculate the daily output in barrels .
Russia ’s gas condensate output is typically about 700,000 - 800,000 barrels a day .
O / RUS1 A group of leading oil producers known as OPEC+ including Russia and Saudi Arabia agreed last month to cut crude supplies to combat the fallout from the coronavirus , which has hit economic activity and demand for fuel around the world .
Under the global pact , Russia has pledged to reduce its crude oil output in May and June by 2.5 million bpd from a baseline of 11 million bpd .
In April , the month before the deal came into force , Russia produced an average 11.35 million bpd .
Last month , oil prices fell to their lowest in more than two decades due to the slide in demand during the pandemic combined with overproduction and a lack of crude storage capacity .
Prices have since recovered slightly as some countries end coronavirus lockdowns and producers curb their supply .
[ O / R ]
Russia ’s average monthly oil and gas condensate output fell to 9.97 million bpd in August 2009 but then remained above 10 million bpd until this month , thanks to new fields coming online such as Vankor , operated by energy giant Rosneft .
Reporting by Olesya Astakhova Gleb Gorodyankin ; writing by Vladimir Soldatkin ; Editing by Louise Heavens and David Clarke

German govt and states agree on way to ease lockdown: document .
2020-05-06 07:49:27 +00:00 .
BERLIN ( Reuters ) - Germany ’s federal government and 16 states have agreed all shops and some sports can restart under certain conditions , schools will gradually open for all pupils and states will each decide on reopening restaurants , hotels and gyms , a document showed .
Protesters attend a demonstration against the lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Berlin , Germany , May 2 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Christian Mang Germany went into lockdown in March to slow the spread of the new coronavirus .
Its reproduction rate has been drifting down for several days , leading to pressure from regional governments and business groups for restrictions to be relaxed .
The draft seen by Reuters , dated late on May 5 , was prepared by federal chancellery chief Helge Braun and the heads of regional chancelleries for a telephone conference Chancellor Angela Merkel is to hold with state premiers later on Wednesday .
Based on infection levels , states will decide on their own about a gradual opening of universities , bars , trade fairs , cosmetic studios , brothels , theatres , cinemas and discos all under certain hygiene and distancing concepts , said the draft .
States will also decide on limiting contact between people .
On Tuesday the southern German state of Bavaria announced it would partially reopen for tourism later this month , with superstores , beer gardens , restaurants and hotels resuming operations , albeit with restrictions .
The draft document agreed between central government and the states said amateur open - air sports could restart , as could professional football in the first and second division under certain conditions , but it was unclear from the draft when exactly the Bundesliga would restart .
Some German states want the Bundesliga to kick off again on May 15 and two people familiar with the preparations have told Reuters it is probably set to be given the green light to restart then .
The draft document says the start of matches must be preceded by two weeks of quarantine , possibly as a training camp .
Schools should gradually reopen for all pupils and nurseries should start looking after more children from May 11 , it said .
In a bid to prevent a second widespread coronavirus outbreak , the federal and state governments agreed in preliminary talks that if the number of new infections rises after restrictions on public life are eased , local restrictions should be reintroduced immediately .
The plan is for this threshold to be set at “ more than 50 new infections per 100,000 inhabitants within the last seven days ” in districts .
If there is a limited outbreak , such as in a nursing home , restrictions might only be applied there , the paper showed .
“ If there is a dispersed regional outbreak and infection chains are unclear , general restrictions , such as those in force in Germany before 20 April , must be consistently reintroduced regionally , ” the paper says .
This would include restricting travel to and from these regions .
Germany has been more successful than other large European countries in slowing the virus ’ spread .
The number of confirmed coronavirus cases has increased by 947 to 164,807 , data from the Robert Koch Institute ( RKI ) for infectious diseases showed on Wednesday .
The reported death toll rose by 165 to 6,996 .
Writing by Michelle Martin ; Editing by Madeline Chambers ,
William Maclean

Britain's brewers and pubs tap customer loyalty to aid survival .
2020-05-06 07:18:17 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Britain ’s brewers and pubs were hoping this summer would be a repeat of 2018 , when crowds drawn by the combination of sunshine and soccer resulted in the biggest increase in year - on - year beer sales for 45 years .
FILE PHOTO :
Workers at The Orange Tree Pub in Baldock sell beer , vegetables and other goods as the pub has turned into a mini grocery store , during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Britain , April 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Paul Childs
That hope evaporated in March when the government advised people to avoid pubs , then demanded they closed and then imposed a countrywide lockdown , all in the space of a week , as it fought to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus .
Sim Cotton , who co - founded The London Beer Factory six years ago , was left with beer in his tanks that he is now selling in cans - Lifesavers , a 4 % gluten - free lager , and National Heroes , a 4.2 % American Pale Ale - with the proceeds going to two local hospitals in south London that are treating COVID-19 patients .
“ The uptake ’s been amazing , ” he said .
“ We ’ve had a lot of support from our regular customers and also people caring about the NHS and wanting to show their support . ”
The company sells some of its range of IPAs , sour beers and stouts to Tesco , Britain ’s biggest supermarket , and it recently started selling online .
The web store , which it had n’t previously promoted , had seen transactions rise from three or four a day to as high as 123 after the pubs closed , Cotton said .
But that will never replace sales to pubs and bars .
“ Drinking beer is part of socializing and you ’re never going to be able to replace socializing with your friends in pubs or restaurants , ” he said .
“ The likes of House Party or Zoom definitely do n’t come close . ”
The Society of Independent Brewers said last month many breweries were facing closure as beer sales had fallen 82 % .
Mark Allan , landlord of the Black Prince in Kennington , south London , is offering takeout food and drink to maintain some revenue and keep a connection with loyal customers .
“ The response has been amazing , ” he said .
“ I think everyone appreciates that we ’re here . ”
Allan has been at the pub for 10 years , and signed a new 15 - year lease on the afternoon before pubs were ordered to close .
He has accessed a government loan , furloughed staff and received a rent break from his brewery to stop the pub going under .
“ There ’s no playbook for COVID-19 , ” he said .
The British Beer and Pub Association said the coronavirus had had a big impact .
“ Overnight , pubs had to close and breweries lost their primary access to market , ” Chief Executive Emma McClarkin said .
She said grants and the job retention scheme had helped , but more needed to be done , especially if pubs were closed for a prolonged period and had to adapt to social distancing when they re - opened .
“ Any substantial reductions in usable space or increased costs will inevitably result in a need for further government support if the Great British pub is to survive , ” she said .
Customer Rachel Low said she was supporting the Black Prince by buying food and drink until it starts serving pints again .
“ It ’s about the beer , it ’s about the company and it ’s about the food , ” she said .
“ You do n’t get it in a home , you do n’t get it in a bar , you do n’t get it on a football field or anything like that , you get it in a pub .
“ And the absence of it , I think , will be felt by lots of people . ”
Writing by Paul Sandle ;
Editing by Mike Colett - White

Georgia grand jury to consider charges in shooting of unarmed black man .
2020-05-06 00:55:45 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
A Georgia county prosecutor said on Tuesday he would ask a grand jury to decide if charges should be filed against a white former law enforcement officer and his son in the fatal shooting of an unarmed young black man as he ran through a small town .
The shooting of 25 - year - old Ahmaud Arbery outside Brunswick , Georgia , in February was captured on videotape and posted on social media .
The graphic footage has stirred outrage over the reluctance of prosecutors to file charges against Gregory McMichael and his son , Travis .
“ I am of the opinion that the case should be presented to the grand jury of Glynn County for consideration of criminal charges against those involved in the death of Mr. Arbery , ” Tom Durden , acting district attorney for a neighboring district , said in a letter posted on Facebook .
Durden , who was assigned to investigate the fatal shooting after prosecutors in Brunswick and a neighboring district recused themselves due to potential conflicts of interest , said he would present the case to the next available grand jury in Glynn County .
That grand jury might not meet until mid - June or later because courts were under restrictions imposed by the coronavirus pandemic , he said .
The video footage , which was taken by an unidentified witness in another car , shows Arbery jogging down a narrow two - lane road and around a white pickup truck stopped in the right lane , its driver ’s door open .
As Arbery crosses back in front of the truck a gunshot is fired .
Arbery is then seen struggling with a man holding a long gun as a second man stands in the bed of the truck brandishing a revolver .
Two more shots are heard before Arbery stumbles and falls face - down onto the asphalt .
According to a police report obtained by the New York Times , Gregory McMichael , a former police officer and district attorney ’s investigator , told investigators the incident began when he spotted Arbery from his front yard “ hauling ass ” down the street .
McMichael told police that , because he suspected Arbery in a string of recent neighborhood break - ins , he summoned his son and the two men gave chase in the truck , Gregory McMichael carrying a .357 Magnum revolver and Travis armed with a shotgun .
Gregory McMichael said Arbery began to “ violently attack ” his son and fought over the shotgun , prompting Travis to open fire .
It is not clear from the police report or the videotape if Gregory McMichael also fired on Arbery .
According to a letter obtained by the Times , the prosecutor in Brunswick argued there was not probable cause to arrest the McMichaels because they were legally carrying firearms , had a right to pursue a burglary suspect and use deadly force to protect themselves .
Reporting by Dan Whitcomb ; editing by Bill Tarrant and Leslie Adler

MercadoLibre to invest over $700 million in Brazil as coronavirus boosts e-commerce .
2020-05-05 22:27:24 +00:00 .
SAO PAULO ( Reuters ) - Latin American e - commerce company MercadoLibre is one of the few firms not scaling back spending amid the coronavirus pandemic and plans to move forward with a planned 4 billion reais ( $ 717 million ) investment in Brazil this year , an executive told Reuters on Tuesday .
After seeing a sharp drop in demand in the second half of March , the Argentina - based company reported strong sales in April with an increasing number of consumers shopping online while social distancing measures were in place .
“ We might have to redirect some spending to logistics due to the rise in e - commerce demand , but for now the idea is to keep capital expenditure , ” said MercadoLibre ’s vice president for Latin America , Stelleo Tolda .
He noted that stay - at - home measures led a growing number of smaller vendors to seek digital platforms such as MercadoLibre to continue selling their products and preserve cash flow .
The e - commerce firm has hired 200 direct employees and 2,500 third - party contractors since the second half of March to strengthen its logistics team and cope with a higher volume of deliveries .
Tolda expects that many of the new customers and vendors will continue to use online channels even after lockdowns are over .
“ I believe that e - commerce ’s stake in total sales will stabilize at a level higher than before the crisis , ” he said .
In the first quarter , the company ’s net revenue grew by 37.6 % from the same period a year ago to $ 652 million .
Only in Brazil , which accounts for 61 % of the total , its net revenue climbed by 31.4 % in U.S. dollar terms and 55 % in Brazilian real terms year - on - year .
Still , MercadoLibre reported a net loss of $ 21.1 million after taxes in the quarter ended on March 31 compared with a loss of $ 54 million in the fourth quarter .
Besides new hires , MercadoLibre also plans to open a fourth distribution center this year in Brazil ’s northeastern region , according to Tolda .
The company is also focused on expanding its financial services unit MercadoPago .
On April 15 , the e - commerce group said MercadoPago would extending a 600 million - real ( $ 114 million ) credit line to help Brazilian medium and small businesses face the sharp drop in economic activity caused by the new coronavirus crisis .
( $ 1 = 5.58 reais )
Reporting by Aluisio Alves ; Writing by Gabriela Mello ; Editing by
Lisa Shumaker

XPO Logistics stock jumps 13% on cost-cutting, e-commerce growth .
2020-05-05 18:13:35 +00:00 .
LOS ANGELES ( Reuters ) - XPO Logistics Inc ( XPO.N ) shares jumped almost 13 % on Tuesday after executives said its e - commerce fulfillment , returns and home delivery businesses are thriving during the novel coronavirus crisis .
“ E - commerce saved us in April ...
It was our strongest- performing vertical across the board , ” Chief Executive Officer Bradley Jacobs said on a conference call with analysts .
XPO is courting new e - commerce business and squeezing costs via warehouse and other automation projects since losing two - thirds - or $ 600 million - of its Amazon.com Inc ( AMZN.O ) business early last year .
The company ’s shares , which topped $ 114 in September 2018 , jumped almost 13 % to $ 71.85 in early trading on Tuesday and were at $ 69.48 , up nearly 9 % , in the afternoon .
XPO ’s e - commerce services include pack and ship , returns management and “ last mile ” delivery of big and bulky items like furniture and exercise equipment - all of which have seen an uptick due to stay - at - home orders aimed at slowing the spread of the novel coronavirus that has killed more than 250,000 people around the world .
Online sales of products for home offices , home improvement and do - it - yourself projects are up , said XPO executives , who noted increased shipments of everything from home gym equipment and electronics to appliances and home and garden supplies .
XPO is also the largest provider of fulfillment services for e - commerce in Europe , which is beginning to reopen after coronavirus - related business closures , they said .
“ E - com is a good place to be right now .
And fortunately , we have a good exposure to it .
It ’s not the majority of our business , though , ” Jacobs said .
The transportation and warehousing company , which does not break out e - commerce results separately , on Monday said net profit tumbled more than 51 % in the first quarter .
Its core transportation segment revenue declined almost 8 % , due to demand destruction wrought by the pandemic and the loss of business from Amazon .
Last mile revenue was down 10 % from a year ago .
Excluding postal injection - a service it provided to Amazon and exited in the middle of the first quarter last year - “ growth in our core last mile , heavy goods business accelerated to 9 % year - over - year , ” Chief Strategy Officer Matthew Fassler said .
Excluding e - commerce and food and beverage , “ all other parts of transportation logistics did not perform well from the middle of March until the end of April , ” Jacobs said .
“ We look at 2020 as kind of a lost year for earnings growth , ” said Jacobs , who vowed to seize opportunities in e - commerce and other pockets of strength .
Executives said XPO has ample liquidity to manage the global health crisis .
A spokeswoman said XPO did not participate in loan programs offered by the Coronavirus Aid , Relief and Economic Security ( CARES ) Act .
Rivals United Parcel Service Inc ( UPS.N ) and FedEx Corp ( FDX.N ) previously said they declined to participate in the program .
Reporting by Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles ;
Editing by Dan Grebler and Jonathan Oatis

Germany to reopen all shops, allow soccer matches: sources .
2020-05-04 22:03:55 +00:00 .
BERLIN ( Reuters ) - Germany ’s state premiers will agree on measures to further ease coronavirus restrictions in a teleconference with Chancellor Angela Merkel scheduled for Wednesday , two people familiar with the preparations told Reuters on Monday .
FILE PHOTO :
An empty street is pictured on Labour Day , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , in the Kreuzberg district of Berlin , Germany May 1 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Hannibal Hanschke
The state premiers are expected to give the green light for large shops to reopen , probably from May 11 , the sources said .
Smaller shops are already back to business in Europe ’s largest economy as long as they respect social distancing rules to slow the spread of the highly contagious novel coronavirus .
German states are also set to allow the Bundesliga soccer league to resume matches , probably from May 15 , under strict conditions without fans in stadiums , the sources said .
At the same time , state premiers will allow outdoor sports for non - professionals and children , the sources added .
The states will also agree to reopen schools for all grades step - by - step , though most children will only be allowed to go to class in rotating shifts , not on daily basis , the sources said .
Officials are also aware that “ something needs to be done ” to gradually reopen day nurseries and kindergartens for as many toddlers as possible to help working parents , one source said .
Germany took a further step on the long road back to post - coronavirus normality on Monday , with museums and hairdressers reopening under strict conditions , churches opening their doors for worshippers , and more car factories resuming work .
But more than a month after Germany suspended all but essential social and commercial life to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus , politicians are at odds over how far and how fast to move .
There is mounting pressure from business groups and some regional governments who are anxious to move faster on restarting economic life .
Merkel has warned that reopening too swiftly risks triggering a second wave of infections .
Germany has been more successful than other large European countries in slowing the virus ’ spread - it estimates that every 100 carriers of the virus now infects only 74 others on average , well below the 100 mark where new restrictions must be imposed .
Writing by Michael Nienaber ;
Editing by Sonya Hepinstall

SEC eases crowdfunding rules for firms due to coronavirus disruption .
2020-05-04 20:23:29 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) on Monday said it would provide relief to smaller firms seeking to raise capital via online platforms to meet “ urgent funding needs ” due to the coronavirus - related disruption .
FILE PHOTO :
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission logo adorns an office door at the SEC headquarters in Washington , June 24 , 2011 .
REUTERS / Jonathan Ernst / File Photo
The SEC ’s measure seeks to temporarily amend existing crowdfunding requirements but only if a company meets “ the enhanced eligibility requirements ” while providing “ clear , prominent disclosure to investors about its reliance on the relief , ” which will apply to offerings launched between the effective date of the temporary rules and Aug. 31 , the agency said .
The regulator in March proposed allowing smaller , private companies to access more capital before they meet a requirement to register with the agency - a lengthy and costly process .
At that time , some investor advocates expressed worries that even the stricter rules now in effect were not enough to encourage robust disclosure .
The agency has previously issued relief to address concerns by public companies and investment firms .
Monday ’s measure exempts issuers who have offered between $ 107,000 and $ 250,000 in securities within a 12 - month period from an independent auditor review requirement of financial statements , the agency said .
Issuers that have been organized and operated for at least six months prior to the commencement of the crowdfunding offering are also eligible for the agency ’s conditional relief .
Firms must also have issued securities under the agency ’s current Regulation Crowdfunding offering rules in the past , the agency said .
Issuers may only initiate crowdfunding after filing offering statements , but the firms ’ financial statements may be initially omitted , the agency said .
“ In the current environment , many established small businesses are facing challenges accessing urgently needed capital in a timely and cost - effective manner , ” SEC Chairman Jay Clayton said in a statement .
“ Today ’s action responds to feedback we have received from our Small Business Capital Formation Advisory Committee and others about the difficulties these companies may face in conducting an offering within a time frame that meets pressing capital needs , while continuing to provide appropriate protections for investors . ”
Reporting by Katanga Johnson ;
Editing by Paul Simao

Coronavirus puts brakes on sports car maker Ferrari .
2020-05-04 15:13:02 +00:00 .
MILAN ( Reuters ) - Luxury sports car maker Ferrari ( RACE.MI ) cut its 2020 core profit forecast on Monday due to disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic , which it said would mainly hit second quarter results .
FILE PHOTO :
Ferrari Roma is unveiled during its first world presentation in Rome , Italy , November 14 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Guglielmo Mangiapane
The company , known for its red Formula One racing cars and its prancing horse logo , said it now expected adjusted earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation ( EBITDA ) to edge down from 2019 levels to 1.05 - 1.20 billion euros .
In February , Ferrari had projected an increase in 2020 EBITDA to 1.38 - 1.43 billion euros .
The Italian company , which on Monday restarted operations at its plants in Maranello and Modena , forecast a “ harsh ” reduction of revenues linked to Formula One , where races have been suspended , as well as reduced turnover from brand projects and lower engine shipments to Maserati .
At 1315 GMT , its shares were down 2.7 % at 139.55 euros , having fallen more than 5 % immediately after the news .
Morgan Stanley analysts said the guidance reduction was steeper than they had expected , but were encouraged Ferrari is still aiming to generate free cash flow this year .
“ This extraordinary level of stability in an economic crisis takes top place at the podium and we expect investors to use any weakness as a buying opportunity , ” they said .
Ferrari , whose origins date back to 1929 , now expects industrial free cash flow of 100 - 200 million euros this year , compared with 400 million euros or more previously .
The company said its new guidance did not include a potential second wave of COVID-19 infections .
In the first quarter of this year , adjusted EBITDA rose 1.9 % to 317 million euros ( $ 347 million ) , broadly in line with a 322 million euro forecast in an analyst poll compiled by Reuters .
Ferrari ’s two plants , both located in Italy ’s northern Emilia Romagna region , had been closed since mid March .
Volumes rose despite delivery suspensions due to the virus outbreak , driven by 488 Pista and 488 Pista Spider models , along with the ramp up of the F8 Tributo , the company said .
The margin on adjusted EBITDA came in at 34 % in the first quarter , up from 33.1 % a year earlier .
Ferrari said its total available liquidity at the end of March was 1.23 billion euros .
Last month , it secured additional committed credit lines worth 350 million euros , with maturities up to 24 months , taking total committed , available and undrawn credit lines to 700 million euros , it said .
For a graphic on Ferrari vs premium autos and luxury rivals , click here.png Reporting by Giulio Piovaccari ;
Editing by Valentina Za and Mark Potter

Oil falls on renewed U.S.-China tensions, global glut .
2020-05-04 14:16:14 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Oil prices fell on Monday on worries that a global oil glut may persist even as coronavirus pandemic lockdowns start to ease and amid a fresh spat between the United States and China over the origin of the virus .
FILE PHOTO :
The sun is seen behind a crude oil pump jack in the Permian Basin in Loving County , Texas , U.S. , November 22 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Angus Mordant / File Photo Brent crude LCOc1 was down 7 cents , or 0.3 % , at $ 26.37 at 1339 GMT , while U.S. West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) crude CLc1 fell 39 cents , or 2 % , to $ 19.39 .
While global oil demand is expected to recover modestly from April lows as countries ease some lockdown measures , the glut created over months in storage facilities will loom over the markets .
“ As oil inventories are likely still increasing over the coming weeks , oil prices remain vulnerable to renewed setbacks , ” said UBS analyst Giovanni Staunovo .
However , Goldman Sachs was more optimistic than before about the rise of oil prices next year due to lower crude production and a partial recovery in oil demand .
The Wall Street bank raised its 2021 forecast for global benchmark Brent to $ 55.63 per barrel from $ 52.50 earlier .
The bank hiked its estimate for WTI to $ 51.38 a barrel from $ 48.50 previously .
Signs that the output cuts may help reduce the supply overhang have emerged with the narrowing of Brent ’s contango - the market structure in which later - dated prices are higher than prompt supplies .
The six - month spread of Brent futures LCOc1 - LCOc7 hit its narrowest in almost a month at a discount of around $ 6.50 , up from a record wide discount of almost $ 14 in late - March , reflecting decreasing oversupply expectations and making storage for later sale less profitable .
The re - emergence of trade tensions between the United State and China also weighed on prices .
Adding to U.S. President Donald Trump ’s threat last week to impose tariffs on China , Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Sunday there was “ a significant amount of evidence ” that the new coronavirus emerged from a Chinese laboratory .
“ Demand projections have sobered up last week ’s enthusiasm and this , together with the prospect of new U.S.-China trade tensions , have weighted heavily on prices today , ” said Rystad ’s senior oil markets analyst Paola Rodriguez - Masiu .
Oil prices recovered some of their losses after U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said he expected China to make good on its trade agreement with the United States .
He also said he expected oil markets to rebound , and that the Trump administration was looking for more storage capacity .
Concerns about weak manufacturing data in Asia and Europe , assessed by Purchasing Managers ’ Index ( PMI ) of manufacturing companies , also put pressure on oil prices .
In Asia , a series of PMIs from IHS Markit fell deeper into contraction from March , with some diving to all - time lows and others hitting levels last seen during the 2008 - 2009 global financial crisis .
PMIs in France , the euro zone ’s second - biggest economy , dropped in April to the lowest level on record .
IHS Markit ’s Final PMI for German manufacturing , which accounts for about a fifth of Europe ’s largest economy , shrank at the fastest rate on record .
The U.S. dollar surged against most major currencies on Monday amid fears that last year ’s U.S.-China dispute will be re - ignited .
Oil is usually priced in dollars so a stronger greenback makes crude more expensive for buyers with other currencies .
Reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin , additional reporting by Roslan Khasawneh in Singapore and Sonali Paul in Melbourne ; Editing by Emelia Sithole - Matarise , David Evans ,
Kirsten Donovan

Commuters stream to work as Malaysia lifts coronavirus curbs on movement .
2020-05-04 06:04:26 +00:00 .
KUALA LUMPUR ( Reuters ) -
Thousands of Malaysians joined the morning rush hour on Monday as the government eased curbs on movement and businesses for the first time in six weeks , looking to restart an economy racked by the coronavirus pandemic .
A general view shows increasingly busy streets as Malaysia reopens a majority of businesses , after a movement control order was imposed to fight the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia May 4 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lim Huey Teng Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin has said most businesses would be allowed to resume in the effort to stem economic losses the government estimates to stand at 63 billion ringgit ( £ 11.6 billion ) since the March 18 curbs .
Heavy traffic filled thoroughfares into the capital of Kuala Lumpur , highway authorities and media said .
“ You can see now , even the traffic is bad , ” said Raja Muizuddin , 29 , who works in customer service .
“ Literally everyone is going out using the same excuses that they ’re going to work .
It ’s a mass opening . ”
A phased opening of different sectors every two weeks might have been preferable , he added .
“ I ’m not happy . ”
Many retail businesses remain closed , however , a Reuters witness said .
The government defended its relaxation despite a recent climb in infections , with Sunday ’s tally of 122 new cases the highest since April 14 , for a total of nearly 6,300 infections .
Malaysia , which until mid - April had the highest number of infections in southeast Asia , imposed a partial lockdown on movement and businesses on March 18 to rein in the virus .
Nine of its 13 states have expressed reservations over the easing move , opting to delay it or toughen restrictions for fear of a surge in infections .
The largest palm producing state of Sabah , on Borneo island , said it would stick to a previous shutdown order that runs until May 12 , to ensure people “ are not exposed ” to the virus , Chief Minister Shafie Apdal said in a statement on Sunday .
But manufacturers are keen to get back to work , with some , such as tech firm Qdos Group , aiming to ramp up production .
Chief Executive Jeffrey Hwang said his company was focused on clearing a backlog in demand for its products , used to make medical equipment , while maintaining “ absolute safety ” at its facility .
“ Got to turn on more overtime in May and June to cope with that , ” Hwang added .
( Interactive graphic tracking global spread of coronavirus : Click here )
Writing by Joseph Sipalan ; Reporting by Ebrahim Harris and Lim Huey Teng ; Additional reporting by Krishna N. Das ;
Editing by Clarence Fernandez

Dutch McDonald's trials social-distancing restaurant .
2020-05-03 17:59:19 +00:00 .
AMSTERDAM ( Reuters ) - Big Macs delivered on meal trolleys , hand sanitizers at the entrance and designated waiting spots to separate customers could become a feature of McDonald ’s restaurants in the Netherlands when they are allowed to reopen .
An employee wearing protective gloves handles an order at a prototype location of fast food giant McDonald 's for restaurants which respect the 1.5 m social distancing measure , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Arnhem , Netherlands , May 1 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Piroschka van de Wouw
In a trial at a restaurant in the city of Arnhem , McDonald ’s has been looking for ways to maintain social distancing when the coronavirus lockdown is relaxed .
“ We have tried to figure out how to keep our customers and employees safe , while maintaining a restaurant atmosphere , ” McDonald ’s Netherlands spokeswoman Eunice Koekkoek told Reuters .
“ These are drastic changes , but we hope to make them in a way that customers do n’t notice them too much . ”
Restaurants , bars and other public places in the Netherlands have been closed since March 15 .
As of Friday , 39,791 coronavirus cases had been confirmed with 4,893 deaths .
But new infections have been dropping , prompting calls to loosen the lockdown after its current deadline of May 19 .
A decision on whether to reopen restaurants and bars is expected around May 12 , but Prime Minister Mark Rutte has ruled out a return to normal .
If they do reopen , they will have to keep customers and staff at least 1.5 meters ( 5 feet ) apart to avoid a new wave of infections .
McDonald ’s says it could introduce table service , with burgers and fries wheeled to customers on trolleys from which they can pick up their orders .
Other new features would include hand - washing stations at the entrance and a host behind a plastic screen showing customers their place in line .
Many restaurant owners in the Netherlands fear social distancing will simply put them out of business .
But McDonald ’s expects its new set - up will work at 180 larger restaurants out of its 252 franchises in the country .
“ On average this will allow us to serve around 66 % of our normal number of customers , ” Koekkoek said .
“ We do n’t expect reopening to be allowed before June .
But even then , we will move in steps .
Readjusting 180 restaurants is a tall order . ”
About three quarters of McDonald ’s 39,000 restaurants worldwide were operational as of Thursday , including almost all its nearly 14,000 outlets in the United States , where drive - throughs are common .
Reporting by Bart Meijer ;
Editing by Giles Elgood

Thyssenkrupp sees coronavirus cash squeeze despite elevator sale: letter .
2020-05-03 12:31:33 +00:00 .
DUESSELDORF , Germany ( Reuters ) - Germany ’s Thyssenkrupp ( TKAG.DE ) expects the coronavirus crisis to cause a new financial squeeze , scuppering hopes that selling its elevator business would deliver a swift cash respite for the embattled firm , its management board told staff in a letter .
FILE PHOTO :
The logo of German steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG is seen on an escalator at Frankfurt 's main railways station in Frankfurt , Germany , January 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Wolfgang Rattay / File Photo
The elevator division was sold in February to ease financial pressure on the conglomerate which has struggled for years after ill - fated investments .
But the coronavirus crisis has dealt a blow before cash from that sale arrives in June .
Sources said last week that Thyssenkrupp had secured about 1 billion euros ( $ 1.10 billion ) in state aid to tide it over until sale proceeds arrive .
“ In the medium term , the cash outflows caused by the corona ( crisis ) will in all likelihood result in the financial leeway created by the sale of the elevator business becoming much lower than what was originally anticipated , ” the board wrote to staff .
“ We are preparing solutions for this , ” according to the April 30 letter signed by Chief Executive Martina Merz that was seen by Reuters and first reported by German daily Handelsblatt .
Thyssenkrupp agreed to sell its elevators division to a consortium of Advent , Cinven and Germany ’s RAG foundation for 17.2 billion euros in February , with proceeds expected to be received in June .
A source said the loan from state development bank KfW would assist the conglomerate , which has suffered from slow demand for auto parts after carmakers shut down production because of the pandemic .
The loan expires at the end of September Car makers and suppliers have scrambled to shore up their liquidity as sales in Europe tumbled by more than 50 % in March .
Thyssenkrupp has been pummelled in recent years by a downturn in the car market , multiple leadership changes and an overly complex group structure .
Its shares hit historic lows around 3.20 euros in mid - March .
As well as selling its elevator business , Thyssenkrupp ’s restructuring involves seeking buyers for its Plant Technology division , which builds cement , chemicals and fertiliser plants .
( $ 1 = 0.9105 euros )
Reporting by Tom Kaeckenhoff ; Writing by Joseph Nasr ;
Editing by Edmund Blair

New York's Cuomo warns against 'blindly' reopening states .
2020-05-02 17:20:42 +00:00 .
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo speaks at a daily briefing during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) at the State Capitol in Albany , New York , U.S. , April 29 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Mike Segar NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo on Saturday pushed back against what he called premature demands that he reopen the state , saying he knew people were struggling without jobs but that more understanding of the coronavirus was needed .
As governors in about half the United States partially reopen their economies over this weekend , Cuomo said he needed much more information on what the pandemic is doing in his hardest - hit state before he loosens restrictions .
“ Even when you are in unchartered waters , it does n’t mean you proceed blindly , ” he said .
“ Use information to determine action - not emotions , not politics , not what people think or feel but what we know in terms of facts . ”
Georgia and Texas are leading the way in letting businesses shuttered by the pandemic begin partially reopening .
Leaders in those and several other states where the coronavirus has had less of an impact are under pressure to allow people to return to work as government data released this week showed 30 million Americans have sought unemployment benefits since March 21 .
Cuomo pointed to the roughly 900 new coronavirus cases hospitals in New York are still reporting daily , and the fact that officials do not know where those infections are coming from , as reason enough to keep the Empire State shutdown .
The governor also released the preliminary results of a statewide antibody survey of about 15,000 people showing that 12.3 % were previously infected with the virus .
It confirmed the results of another test with a smaller sample size released about 10 days ago showing that one in five New York City residents has had the virus , with the Bronx bureau seeing the highest number positive for antibodies at 27.6 % .
As of Saturday , the number of known infections nationwide had climbed to more than 1.1 million , including about 65,000 deaths , according to a Reuters tally .
As testing increases across the country , so does the number of cases .
North Carolina on Saturday posted a record number of new cases with 551 infections , as did Puerto Rico , with 182 .
Iowa hit a record for the second straight day .
Overall in the United States , there were 34,000 new cases on Friday , the highest daily total since April 24 .
Reporting by Peter Szekely in New York and Brad Brooks in Austin , Texas ; Additional reporting by Lisa Shumaker in Chicago ;
Editing by Daniel
Wallis

Singapore to ease some coronavirus curbs over next few weeks .
2020-05-02 16:49:22 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) - Singapore will start easing coronavirus restrictions over the next few weeks , authorities said on Saturday , as the city - state takes the first tentative steps towards reopening its economy .
FILE PHOTO :
People leave a tent used as a thermal scanning station , while buying groceries , amid the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Singapore April 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Edgar Su Businesses such as home - based enterprises , laundry services and barbershops will be allowed to reopen from May 12 .
A week later , some students will be allowed to go back to schools in small groups .
Officials say workplaces will be allowed to reopen gradually , taking into account their importance to the economy and supply chains , as well as their ability to minimise the risk of infection .
Singapore is facing the deepest recession in its 55 - year history , compounded by so - called “ circuit breaker ” restrictions aimed at stemming the spread of the novel coronavirus that are due to last until June 1 .
“ We are preparing for the safe and gradual resumption of economic and community activities after the end of the circuit breaker period on 1 June 2020 , ” the ministry of health said in a statement .
Singapore has among the highest number of coronavirus infections in Asia , mainly due to outbreaks in cramped migrant - worker dormitories .
It has managed to curb the spread of the disease among locals outside the dormitories .
On Saturday , officials confirmed 447 new infections , the smallest daily rise in two weeks , taking the total to 17,548 .
It also reported the death of a 76 - year - old man , taking the total death toll to 17 .
Of the new confirmed cases , 431 involve migrant workers living in dormitories and four are Singaporeans or permanent residents , the health ministry said .
The average daily number of new cases outside the migrant worker dormitories has dropped by more than half to 12 in the past week , from 25 the week before , the ministry said on Friday .
Authorities said SafeEntry , a digital check - in system to log details of visitors and employees , will be deployed extensively across the country to help with contact tracing .
The government said the measures could still be adjusted depending on the situation , and that people should continue to stay at home and not meet in groups .
“ Even as we ease and adjust some of these measures , the bottom line is this - this is not the time to slacken and let our guard down , ” Singapore minister Lawrence Wong , who co - heads the country ’s virus fighting taskforce , told a media briefing .
“ We ’re not out of the woods , ” he said .
Reporting by Aradhana Aravindan in Singapore ; Additional reporting by Aakriti Bhalla and Ismail Shakil in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Michael Perry , Stephen Coates and Helen Popper

Canada bans assault-style weapons in aftermath of mass shooting .
2020-05-01 18:35:23 +00:00 .
OTTAWA ( Reuters ) - Canada is banning the sale of military - grade assault weapons in the aftermath of the country ’s deadliest mass shooting two weeks ago , Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Friday .
“ These weapons were designed for one purpose and one purpose only : to kill the largest number of people in the shortest amount of time , ” Trudeau said at a daily media briefing in Ottawa .
“ There is no use and no place for such weapons in Canada . ”
Trudeau has previously said a ban was in the works even before the most recent mass shooting almost two weeks ago , in the Atlantic province of Nova Scotia , where a gunman armed with weapons that included an assault rifle killed 22 people .
A source told Reuters on Thursday that the ban would be announced soon and would include several variations of assault - style weapons .
When he announced the measure , Trudeau also cited the 1989 Ecole Polytechnique shooting in Montreal , where a man killed 14 women and himself due to radical anti - feminist sentiments .
Families and friends of gun violence victims “ deserve more than thoughts and prayers , ” Trudeau said .
The ban - which includes buying , selling , transporting , importing or using the designated weapons - will become effective immediately by changing government regulations , Trudeau said .
Current owners of the weapons have two years to dispose of them , and Trudeau said the government will later bring in legislation to provide “ fair compensation . ”
Trudeau ’s Liberal party campaigned in October ’s federal election on a promise to bring in stricter gun control .
Although the debate around guns is less heated in Canada than in the United States , many Indigenous communities use guns as part of traditional hunting practices .
Trudeau acknowledged this , but said that “ you do n’t need an AR-15 to bring down a deer . ”
FILE PHOTO :
Canada 's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau speaks during a news conference at Rideau Cottage , as efforts continue to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Ottawa , Ontario , Canada April 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Blair Gable / File Photo Andrew Scheer , leader of the Conservative Party and the official opposition , slammed the ban as ineffective and said it punished law - abiding citizens .
“ The vast majority of gun crimes are committed with illegally obtained firearms , ” Scheer said in a statement .
“ Nothing the Trudeau Liberals announced today addresses this problem . ”
Canadian pollster Angus Reid released a survey on Friday which found that 78 % of Canadians support a ban on military - grade assault weapons .
Reporting by Moira Warburton in Toronto ;
Editing by Andrea Ricci

Exxon, Chevron slam brakes on shale as oil demand tumbles .
2020-05-01 17:44:55 +00:00 .
HOUSTON ( Reuters ) - Exxon Mobil Corp and Chevron Corp are slamming the brakes on U.S. shale oil production at a time when crude prices and fuel demand have plunged due to global lockdowns to fight the coronavirus pandemic .
Both companies on Friday outlined deep cuts in investments in the Permian shale basin , the top U.S. oilfield where growth in recent years made America the world ’s top oil producer and a net exporter for the first time in decades .
The two top U.S. oil producers , each announced global shut - ins of up to 400,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) this quarter .
They have been rapidly sidelining Permian drilling equipment since the market started crashing in March .
U.S. crude prices have plunged nearly 70 % this year , and actually settled in negative territory on April 20 for the first time ever .
Before that , oil and gas output at both U.S. producers rose in the first quarter with the companies racing to produce 1 million barrels per day in the Permian .
Then fuel demand sank nearly a third this year due to travel and business lockdowns , while a flood of Russian and Saudi oil hit the market when those countries abandoned production cuts .
“ We would intend to bring activity back to the Permian when we see prices recover , ” said Chevron Chief Financial Officer Pierre Breber in an interview .
The two oil majors spent heavily in the last two years to expand in the Permian .
Shale production can be brought on faster than deepwater and other oil exploration projects but requires near - constant drilling to maintain output .
Exxon ’s biggest cuts will come in the Permian , “ where the short - cycle investments are more readily adjusted , ” said Exxon Chief Executive Officer Darren Woods .
He added that because shale wells produce big volumes at first and then decline rapidly , it is “ beneficial in long term ” to make sure “ we ’re bringing those high production rates into a market that ’s more conducive . ”
Exxon posted a $ 610 million first - quarter loss , its first quarterly loss in three decades , on a nearly $ 3 billion inventory writedown reflecting lower margins and prices .
Chevron posted a $ 3.6 billion profit on asset sales and improved refining results , and also said it would further reduce spending this year .
( For a graphic on Exxon 's earnings , click here : tmsnrt.rs/3aTTnrp )
Both companies will slash spending budgets by 30 % this year .
Chevron cut its capital spending budget to $ 14 billion and Exxon has set 2020 spending at $ 23 billion , the lowest in four years .
Even though their results topped Wall Street ’s reduced estimates , Exxon shares fell 6 % at $ 43.56 while Chevron dropped 4.8 % to $ 87.50 .
FILE PHOTO :
A logo of the Exxon Mobil Corp is seen at the Rio Oil and Gas Expo and Conference in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil September 24 , 2018 .
REUTERS / Sergio Moraes / File Photo U.S. crude futures have recovered a bit since settling in negative territory on April 20 , but the current price of around $ 19 per barrel remains below the cost of production for many .
Both Chevron and Exxon maintained their quarterly dividends .
Other oil majors are also slashing investments and seeking ways to conserve cash .
Royal Dutch Shell cut its dividend for the first time since World War II and reported first - quarter profits down nearly half compared to a year - ago .
BP Plc ’s first - quarter profit tumbled by two - thirds and its debt climbed to its highest on record .
Reporting by Jennifer Hiller ;
Editing by David Gregorio

Brazil central bank to cut rates again by 50 bps in May: Reuters poll .
2020-05-01 16:21:57 +00:00 .
BUENOS AIRES ( Reuters ) - Brazil ’s central bank will cut its benchmark interest rate by 50 basis points again on Wednesday to aid Latin America ’s No . 1 economy as it plunges into a rapidly widening recession due to lockdown measures , a Reuters poll showed .
FILE PHOTO :
A general view of Brazil 's Central Bank during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in downtown Brasilia , Brazil , March 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Adriano
Machado
With activity already undergoing what appears to be the deepest quarterly slump on record and companies hardly able to sell their goods and services , inflation is no longer a threat that would prevent more monetary easing .
[ ECILT / LTAM ]
The central bank ’s policy committee , known as Copom , is set to extend the rate cutting cycle it opened last year to stoke an economy that was already lagging before the coronavirus pandemic , spoiling President Jair Bolsonaro ’s vows for growth .
“ The gravity of the situation has become more clear since the last meeting of the Copom , ” said Etore Sanchez , chief economist of Ativa Investimentos in Sao Paulo .
“ The critical condition of the economy will prevail in policy decisions . ”
In a sign of how fast economic conditions are declining , Brazil ’s unemployment rate rose to 12.2 % in the three months through March , marking the biggest increase in three years even though coronavirus was not the major factor .
The expected reduction would be the 7th since July , when the Selic rate stood at 6.50 % , and leave it at a record low of 3.25 % following a similar half - percentage point cut at a scheduled meeting in March , according to 26 economists polled April 27 - 30 .
The Copom is then forecast to ease again to 3.00 % at some point this quarter , below the 3.25 % end - of - cycle rate expected in a previous Reuters poll in April , and remain there for a full year before gradually starting to tighten .
But this approach has caused a side - effect with a 27 % crash of the real BRBY since January after the Copom ’s rate cuts eroded the so - called “ carry trade ” advantage of the Brazilian currency , diminishing its attractiveness to investors .
Such a big depreciation would have ignited inflation in other circumstances , as in the 1980s or in present day Argentina , Brazil ’s neighbor .
However , the coronavirus - related contraction has left Brazilian firms without any pricing power .
“ Despite the real ’s weakness , inflation expectations have continued to fall , giving room for Brazil ’s central bank to ease further , ” Citi analysts wrote in a report this week .
U.S. dollar sales also lessen pressures from a falling currency , it added .
Inflation will probably average 2.7 % in the second quarter , its lowest for a three - month period since 2017 , when a bumper crop brought down food prices , according to Reuters polls .
Gross domestic product ( GDP ) is seen collapsing 5.7 % in April - June .
The worrying outlook has led Congress to begin debating a bill to grant the central bank emergency powers to carry out “ quantitative easing ” or QE as part of its crisis - fighting arsenal .
So far , Roberto Campos Neto , the bank ’s president , has ruled out widespread bond buying , saying any action would be similar to its foreign exchange intervention in times of acute market stress .
Officials want to allay fears they will embark on outright money printing .
“ It will be limited to the secondary market , we see this as a positive measure , ” said Victor Beyruti , an economist at Guide Investimentos in Sao Paulo .
Reporting by Gabriel Burin ;
Editing by Nick Zieminski

U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden says sexual assault 'never happened' .
2020-05-01 14:44:09 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) -
Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden denied on Friday that he sexually assaulted a former Senate aide in 1993 , in his first public remarks on the subject after he faced intense pressure to address the accusation .
FILE PHOTO :
Democratic U.S. presidential candidate and former Vice President Joe Biden speaks during the 11th Democratic candidates debate of the 2020 U.S. presidential campaign , held in CNN 's Washington studios without an audience because of the global coronavirus pandemic , in Washington , U.S. , March 15 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Kevin Lamarque / File Photo “ No , It is not true .
I ’m saying unequivocally it never , ever happened , ” Biden said in an interview on MSNBC when asked if he assaulted his aide .
A California woman named Tara Reade , who worked as a staff assistant in Biden ’s U.S. Senate office from December 1992 to August 1993 , has accused Biden in media interviews of pinning her against a wall in 1993 , reaching under her skirt and pushing his fingers inside her .
Biden , 77 , who will be the Democratic nominee to face Republican President Donald Trump , 73 , in the Nov. 3 U.S. election , has faced growing pressure from within and outside his party to directly address the accusation .
In a statement before the interview , Biden called on the U.S. Senate to ask the National Archives to release any personnel records that could indicate whether the aide filed a complaint against Biden at the time .
He said that personal papers from his Senate years , which were donated to the University of Delaware and have yet to be made available to the public , do not contain any personnel files .
Reuters has not been able to independently confirm Reade ’s accusation and also was unable to reach Reade or a representative for her for comment .
Several news outlets that have published Reade ’s account , including the New York Times and the Washington Post , have interviewed a friend who said Reade told her about the alleged assault at the time .
Another friend told the Times that Reade told her in 2008 about a previous traumatic incident involving Biden .
Reade ’s brother also confirmed parts of Reade ’s account to The Intercept and the Post .
On Monday , the Business Insider news website published an interview with a former neighbor who said Reade told her in the mid-1990s that Biden had put his fingers inside her .
Reade , 56 , told media interviewers she complained at the time about sexual harassment , though not sexual assault , to three of Biden ’s Senate aides .
The Biden campaign released a statement from one , Marianne Baker , who said she never received any report of inappropriate behavior in nearly 20 years of working for Biden .
The Post and Times interviewed the other two aides , both of whom told the newspapers they had no recollection of Reade ’s complaint .
Reade was one of eight women who last year came forward to say Biden had hugged , kissed or touched them in ways that made them uncomfortable , though none accused him of sexual assault .
Reade publicly accused him of the assault on a podcast in March .
Some prominent Democratic women have stepped forward to defend Biden .
Others have asked him to address the accusation .
“ It ca n’t appear that she ’s being ignored just because it ’s an inconvenient truth for certain people in the Democratic Party , ” said Nina Turner , who was national campaign co - chair for the presidential campaign of Senator Bernie Sanders , who dropped out of the Democratic race and endorsed Biden .
Reporting by Trevor Hunnicutt in New York ;
Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Howard Goller

Japan's coronavirus containment needs to stay until cases fall more: experts .
2020-05-01 09:27:29 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Japan needs to keep its coronavirus containment policies in place until the number of cases falls more , experts said on Friday , with the government set to decide on whether to maintain a state of emergency .
FILE PHOTO :
A man stands in front of a closed Pachinko parlour , following the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Tokyo , Japan , April 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Kim Kyung - Hoon
The month - long state of emergency is set to expire on May 6 .
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said the situation remained tough and he would make a decision on the emergency or Monday .
On Thursday , he warned citizens to prepare for a “ drawn - out battle ” against the virus and political sources told Reuters the government was planning to extend the emergency for about a month .
“ For a while , we are going to need to keep these policies going , ” Shigeru Omi , a member of a government panel of experts , told a news conference after a meeting on Friday .
“ New cases have n’t declined quite as much as we ’d like , and there are some regions where the medical system has n’t been able to prepare sufficiently . ”
Earlier , Economics Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura told reporters the experts had also said some regions needed to keep strict restrictions in place while others could start to ease them .
Japan has had more than 14,000 confirmed cases and 436 deaths , according to an NHK tally .
Of the confirmed cases , more than 4,000 were in the capital , Tokyo , with 165 new ones on Friday .
But there are worries that Japan ’s low testing regime has undercounted many coronavirus cases , and fears that the medical system may be strained caring for them .
The outbreak and slowdown in business activities is darkening the outlook for the world ’s third - biggest economy , leading to calls for more spending even after parliament approved an extra budget to fund a $ 1.1 trillion stimulus package .
Consumer prices in Tokyo fell for the first time in three years in April and national factory activity slumped , data showed on Friday , increasing worries the coronavirus outbreak could tip the country back into deflation .
WARNING
The government has called for vigilance during the long Golden Week holiday - normally a peak travel period - that runs through May 6 , calling on people to stay home and reduce contact with others .
Abe declared the emergency on April 7 , initially for Tokyo and several other prefectures after a jump in infections , and later extended it nationwide .
It gives governors greater power to tell people to stay at home and ask businesses to close , but it does not mandate penalties in most cases for non - compliance , relying instead on social pressure and respect for authority .
Tokyo has seen a decline in daily reported cases since hitting a peak of 201 on April 17 , with further falls into double digits this week , but the city ’s governor , Yuriko Koike , has warned residents not to be complacent .
On Friday , the Nippon Foundation , a philanthropic organisation , unveiled the first part of a field hospital built in a waterside area of Tokyo .
Set up in an arena built for Paralympic sports , the 100 - bed facility features alcoves containing a bed , locker and table set apart from each other .
Other beds will be put in tents and expanded as needed , NHK reported .
The International Olympic Committee and the government in March postponed the summer Olympic and Paralympic Games for a year , until July 2021 , because of the coronavirus crisis .
Reporting by Chris Gallagher , Takashi Umekawa , and Rocky Swift ; Additional writing by Linda Sieg and Elaine Lies ; Editing by Michael Perry and Lincoln Feast .

Kremlin questions reliability of coronavirus allegations by junior medic .
2020-04-30 22:26:17 +00:00 .
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) -
The Kremlin on Thursday questioned the reliability of allegations by a former junior medic at Moscow ’s main coronavirus hospital of lax safety standards and miserable pay .
FILE PHOTO :
A medical specialist wearing protective gear transports a man on a stretcher outside a hospital for patients infected with the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) on the outskirts of Moscow , Russia April 29 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Tatyana Makeyeva / File Photo
Natalya
Lyubimaya was brought in to work at Moscow ’s Kommunarka hospital by an outsourcing company .
She said in a video statement this week that she had received just 26,000 roubles ( $ 350 ) a month for working as a junior medic before leaving her job .
Russia ’s average monthly wage is 47,000 roubles , and Lyubimaya said her pay was at odds with a statement by President Vladimir Putin on April 8 suggesting that auxiliary personnel like her should receive 25,000 roubles on top of their salaries .
She also said medical staff had to wear used protective suits , putting their safety and that of patients at risk .
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told the RTVI TV channel there was a lot of fake news around and it was important to fight against it .
“ ... There was information that a nurse at the Kommunarka hospital did not get paid her money .
It then turns out that she ’s not a nurse from the hospital , but a junior medical worker hired by an outsourcing firm and that the firm did not pay her the money , ” Peskov said .
All the facts in such cases needed to be thoroughly checked , he added .
Lyubimaya was employed by a Russian outsourcing company called Arni .
Arni did not respond to a Reuters request for comment by email and was not reachable by phone .
Denis Protsenko , Kommunarka ’s chief doctor , said on Facebook said that allegations about a lack of personal protective equipment at the hospital were false .
His hospital had met all of its obligations to Arni and he was in talks with the company to try to help solve the pay issue , he said .
Lyubimaya said that when she asked about getting the extra money Putin had promised , her managers told her Putin should pay her himself .
“ I want us to be heard and paid all the money , which Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin promised , ” she said .
In March , Putin visited the hospital and praised it for working like clockwork .
Russia has no official tally of medical workers who have died of COVID-19 .
But Moscow cardiologist Alexei Erlikh and his colleagues have created a website called “ Memory List ” which as of April 30 listed the names of 74 doctors .
Russia ’s nationwide case tally now stands at 106,498 and the official overall death toll at 1,073 people .
( $ 1 = 74.2090 roubles )
Editing by Philippa Fletcher

Weak oil prices crush Ambani-led Reliance's profit .
2020-04-30 15:55:24 +00:00 .
BENGALURU ( Reuters ) - Reliance Industries Ltd ’s ( RELI.NS ) quarterly profit fell for the first time in three years as a slump in crude prices due to the coronavirus hammered its dominant energy businesses .
Mukesh Ambani , chairman of Reliance Industries Limited , poses for photographers before addressing the annual shareholders meeting in Mumbai , India , June 12 , 2015 .
REUTERS /
Shailesh Andrade / Files
The company , India ’s largest by market value , has in the last decade diversified to establish large telecoms and retail operations , but the energy division still accounts for the lion ’s share of overall revenue .
The conglomerate led by Asia ’s richest man , Mukesh Ambani , said on Thursday it wrote down 42.45 billion rupees ( $ 565 million ) to reflect inventory losses in its oil refining and petrochemicals businesses .
As a result , consolidated profit plunged 39 % to 63.48 billion rupees ( $ 845 million ) in the three months ended March 31 .
Analysts on average had expected 105.20 billion rupees .
Profit pressure for the owner of the world ’s biggest oil refining complex also forced it to cut the pay of some top oil - and - gas division employees by up to 50 % , joining energy majors like Shell ( RDSa .
L ) in preserving cash .
Brent crude lost an unprecedented two - thirds of its value in the first three months of 2020 as the health crisis crushed demand and oil producers failed to extend supply cuts .
Refiners like Reliance buy and store crude oil for weeks , before processing it into fuel and petroleum products .
An inventory loss is booked when oil prices drop by the time products are shipped .
Reliance said gross refining margin , the profit earned on each barrel of crude oil processed , was $ 8.9 per barrel in the March quarter , less than the $ 9.2 in the prior quarter but better than the $ 8.2 a year earlier .
However , revenue at its telecom business Jio grew in double - digits as more Indians signed up for cheap voice - calling and mobile internet .
Jio ’s subscriber base at the end of March stood at 387.5 million .
Its retail business , which runs 10,000 stores selling groceries , consumer electronics and apparel , reported a modest 4 % rise in revenue , hurt in part by India ’s nationwide lockdown .
Overall , Reliance ’s consolidated revenue from operations fell 2.3 % to 1.39 trillion rupees .
DEBT REDUCTION
The oil - to - telecoms giant unveiled the terms of a rights issue , its first in nearly three decades , to raise money and advanced its aim to eliminate net debt by the end of this year .
Its net debt at the end of March was $ 21.4 billion .
Reliance set a price of 1,257 rupees per share for India ’s biggest rights issue of 531.25 billion rupees with a ratio of 1:15 .
Its stock closed at 1,466 rupees on Thursday .
The company said Jio Platforms , its digital arm , has received additional interest from global investors for a deal similar to Facebook ’s proposed $ 5.7 billion purchase of a 9.99 % stake .
Meanwhile , Saudi Aramco ’s ( 2222.SE ) purchase of 20 % in its oil - to - chemicals arm was on track to close , the company said after it missed the deadline for closing the deal by March .
Reporting by Sachin Ravikumar in Bengaluru and Nidhi Verma in New Delhi ;
Editing by Arun Koyyur

India rice export prices hit 9-month peak as demand recovers .
2020-04-30 15:09:09 +00:00 .
BENGALURU , April 30 ( Reuters ) -
Rice prices in top exporter India hit a nine - month high this week , boosted by a pick - up in demand from African countries even as supplies remain constrained due to corovirus - led lockdowns , while droughts in Thailand supported rates in the absence of new deals .
Farmers plant saplings in a rice field on the outskirts of Ahmedabad , India , July 5 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Amit Dave India ’s 5 % broken parboiled variety RI - INBKN5 - P1 was quoted at $ 378-$383 per tonne this week , the highest since the first week of August , and up from $ 374-$379 per tonne quoted last week .
“ Many exporters could n’t sign new deals due to the lockdown .
They are facing logistical problems and it is keeping prices firm , ” said an exporter based in Kakinada in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh .
Rice traders earlier this month resumed signing new export contracts , after a gap of nearly three weeks as the government adopted stiff restrictions to curb the spread of the virus .
India extended the nationwide lockdown on its 1.3 billion people until at least May 3 to curb the outbreak , as the number of coronavirus cases exceeded 33,000 .
In Thailand , traders said there are no new deals but the ongoing drought has limited rice supplies and kept rates elevated .
Thailand ’s benchmark 5 % broken rice RI - THBKN5 - P1 prices were quoted a tad higher this week at $ 535-$557 from last week ’s $ 530-$556 .
The ongoing drought in Thailand , which started last November , is likely to drag on until July .
However , some rainy days in rice - growing provinces this month have lifted hopes the drought might end soon .
“ The rain has eased worries , and it ’s possible that we ’ll have ample water for crops later in the year , ” said a Bangkok - based trader .
Meanwhile , Bangladesh ’s summer rice crop this year is likely to edge up 0.51 % to 19.5 million tonnes from a year earlier , despite concerns about a shortage of labour to harvest the crop amid a nationwide lockdown , the U.S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) said .
“ Farmers , although concerned about a labour shortage during harvest , believe this year ’s crop has benefited from favourable weather and no major pest or disease infestations , ” the federal agency said in a report on the country , released earlier this week .
Labour , transportation , storage and processing costs are expected to rise due to the novel coronavirus outbreak in the country , USDA said .
Domestic rice prices are also at a two - year high as people resorted to panic buying .
Summer - sown rice crop , locally known as Boro , contributes more than half of Bangladesh ’s typical annual rice output of around 35 million tonnes .
Rates for Vietnam ’s 5 % broken rice variety RI - VNBKN5 - P1 were unavailable due to a public holiday .
Reporting by Rajendra Jadhav in Mumbai , Ruma Paul in Dhaka and Patpicha Tanakasempipat in Bangkok ; additional reporting by Swati Verma ;
Editing by Rashmi Aich

McDonald's profit misses estimates, shares drop 4% .
2020-04-30 14:26:18 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - McDonald ’s Corp ( MCD.N ) missed Wall Street estimates for quarterly profit on Thursday as some restaurants in Europe and elsewhere remained closed to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
A sign at a McDonalds drive - thru advertises free meals for first responders and healthcare workers amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Stoneham , Massachusetts , U.S. , April 22 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Brian Snyder Shares of McDonald 's , a Dow 30 .DJI component , fell more than 4 % after Wall Street opened .
The stock has lost about 5 % so far this year .
Chief Executive Officer Chris Kempczinski also said he believed the world ’s largest fast - food company “ reached a trough in terms of number of restaurants closed in late March . ”
About 75 % of its 39,000 restaurants around the world were operational as of Thursday , including almost all of its nearly 14,000 restaurants in the United States .
The company also said it had resumed operations in nearly all of its restaurants in China , where the virus was first detected late last year , although demand remained low as consumers had not fully returned to their routines .
In the United States , the company ’s biggest market , drive - thru orders have risen to 90 % of sales during the outbreak , up from about 66 % normally , and its ability to offer quick , affordable food will be an advantage in coming months , executives said .
“ As markets start to open up , this desire to really return to familiar favorites , to brands that are known , is very , very powerful , ” Kempczinski said during an earnings call .
The health crisis , which has infected over a million in the United States and killed about 60,000 , has forced government - led lockdowns .
That has led to losses for restaurants as they close completely or shift to carry - out , drive - thru and delivery , particularly in the United States .
Earlier this month , McDonald ’s withdrew its outlook for the year , joining other restaurant chains , citing uncertainties related to the health crisis and its impact on global economic conditions .
The burger chain had pre - announced a 3.4 % fall in first - quarter comparable store sales , with U.S. sales rising just 0.1 % powered by strong demand before the pandemic .
In March alone , global comparable sales fell 22.2 % , the company had said in early April .
Net income fell to $ 1.11 billion , or $ 1.47 per share , in the first quarter ended March 31 from $ 1.33 billion , or $ 1.72 per share , a year earlier .
Analysts were expecting a profit of $ 1.57 per share , according to IBES data from Refinitiv .
FILE PHOTO :
Yandex .
Eats food delivery courier rides a scooter among plastic - wrapped tables of McDonald 's restaurant , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , in Saint Petersburg , Russia March 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Anton Vaganov Revenue fell 6.2 % to $ 4.71 billion , but were above Wall Street estimates of $ 4.65 billion .
Even so , some analysts see the company as a safe bet for troubled times .
McDonald ’s offers “ appealing blue chip characteristics amid a fluid near term set - up , ” including “ the cleanest balance sheet in ( quick - service restaurants ) , the benefits of scale that manifest in superior customer value perceptions and industry - leading U.S. franchisee cash flows , ” wrote Cowen analyst Andrew Charles in a note .
Reporting by Nivedita Balu in Bengaluru and Hilary Russ in New York ; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty and
David Gregorio

GLOBAL MARKETS-Global equities dip; remain on pace for best month on record .
2020-04-30 13:56:51 +00:00 .
NEW YORK , April 30 ( Reuters ) - World equity benchmarks dipped on Thursday yet remained on pace for their best month on record as a rebound in oil prices , encouraging early results from a COVID-19 treatment trial and expectations of more government stimulus helped ease the pain of February and March .
Safe haven assets including the dollar and government bonds rose , reflecting an unsettled market as concerns about containing the coronavirus pandemic and jobs data in the United States were worse than expected .
“ It ’s a hope - based rally rather than an evidence - based rally , ” said Anthony Doyle , cross - asset specialist at fund manager Fidelity International in Sydney .
There were still worries about a second wave of infections , Doyle said , adding that huge piles of cash waiting to go back into the markets suggest investor confidence remained nervous .
MSCI ’s gauge of stocks across the globe shed 0.53 % following broad gains in Asia that pushed Japan ’s Nikkei to a seven - week high as well as declines in Europe .
The index is on pace for its best month since it launched in the late 1980s ..
In early trading on Wall Street , the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 313.38 points , or 1.27 % , to 24,320.48 , the SP 500 lost 27.72 points , or 0.94 % , to 2,911.79 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 25.57 points , or 0.29 % , to 8,889.14 .
“ We have gone back to a turbo - charged version of the great financial crisis , ” said Simon Fennell , a portfolio manager in William Blair ’s global equity team , referring to how markets have surged on mass central bank and government stimulus .
Declines in the equity market came on the heels of a strong finish on Wall Street Wednesday after partial results from a trial of Gilead ’s antiviral drug remdesivir suggested it could help speed recovery from COVID-19 , the respiratory disease caused by the new coronavirus .
Partial results from the 1,063 - patient U.S. government trial of Gilead ’s remdesivir were hailed as “ highly significant ” by the top U.S. infectious disease official , Anthony Fauci .
They showed hospitalized COVID-19 patients given the drug recovered in 11 days , compared with 15 days for patients given a placebo , and a slightly lower death rate .
But since treatment hopes do not seem to take into account regulatory and distribution difficulties , should a treatment be found , currency and bond markets were more circumspect .
“ Any positive medical development is helpful , ” said Westpac FX analyst Sean Callow .
“ But no one should be counting on a major breakthrough - the key for markets is control of the spread of the virus . ”
A rise in U.S. unemployment claims helped bolster safe haven assets .
Benchmark 10 - year notes last rose 9/32 in price to yield 0.5999 % , from 0.627 % late on Wednesday .
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits totaled a seasonally adjusted 3.839 million for the week ended April 25 , the U.S. government said .
That was down from 4.442 million in the prior week .
Commodities were also set to close the month significantly higher .
Gold is set for its best month in four years and copper , which is seen as a something of a bellwether of global industry , was on track for its best performance since December 2017 .
Hope that demand could soon return helped push oil prices broadly higher .
U.S. crude recently rose 13.48 % to $ 17.09 per barrel and Brent was at $ 25.27 , up 12.11 % on the day .
Reporting by David Randall ;
Editing by Will Dunham

Serbia to ease lockdown this weekend despite health warnings .
2020-04-30 13:30:25 +00:00 .
BELGRADE ( Reuters ) - Facing growing public discontent , the Serbian government has decided to ease coronavirus lockdown measures this weekend despite warnings by doctors .
Medical workers stand at the KBC Zvezdara hospital , as the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , in Belgrade , Serbia , April 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Marko Djurica
Serbia has so far reported 8,724 coronavirus cases and 173 deaths .
The number of people unhappy with strict preventative measures introduced by the government of President Aleksandar Vucic is increasing , and many have joined opposition protests from their balconies .
On Thursday the government reversed its decision to lock the entire country down during the coming May Day weekend and instead introduced a curfew from 6 p.m. on Thursday until 5 p.m. on Saturday despite calls by doctors not to relax restrictions .
Serbia ’s chief epidemiologist , Predrag Kon , a member of the government ’s crisis team , said the decision was a compromise .
“ I do not feel good about it , ” he told state - run RTS TV .
He said a three - day lockdown would have been a better and safer decision to prevent the disease spreading .
On Wednesday , Serbia reported 227 new coronavirus cases and 5 deaths .
Neighbouring Bosnia reported a rise in cases on Wednesday after the government began easing restrictions .
The number of patients in the KBC Zvezdara hospital in Belgrade , which has been turned into a COVID-19 clinic , halved compared to a few weeks ago to 200 on Thursday , Doctor Vesna Dopudja told Reuters .
“ Considering what we have been through we are a bit afraid of easing the measures , ” she said .
The government had adopted a policy of gradual easing , under which restaurants and cafes open from next week , public transport in Belgrade resumes on May 8 , while kindergartens will open on May 11 .
Hairdressers were allowed to go back to work this week , but with new safety measure .
Mladen Ivanusa , a representative of the World Health Organisation , warned that caution was necessary .
“ The first wave of epidemics is not over yet , and it is always possible to see a worsening of the situation , ” Ivanusa told Reuters .
He said people will have to change their habits to prevent the virus spreading , despite the easing of government measures .
“ Normality we are going back to now ( as governments ease measures ) , is not the normality we are used to , ” Ivanusa said .
For the first time since March 17 , when it recorded its first coronavirus case , Montenegro , a small Balkan state of only 630,000 people , reported no new cases .
Reporting by Ivana Sekularac ; Aditional reporting by Aleksandar Vasovic ;
Editing by Giles Elgood

Health minister urges patience as Ukraine passes 10,000 coronavirus cases .
2020-04-30 13:12:57 +00:00 .
KIEV ( Reuters ) - Ukraine reached 10,000 coronavirus cases on Thursday and its health minister urged people not to violate lockdown measures that have kept the country ’s death toll much lower than in much of western Europe .
FILE PHOTO :
Ukrainian Health Minister Maksym Stepanov attends an interview in Kiev , Ukraine April 29 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Sergiy
Karazy
In an interview with Reuters , Health Minister Maksym Stepanov said the lockdown could be lifted and life return to some sort of normality by the summer but the government could not risk a second wave of infections by opening up too soon .
The early introduction of lockdown measures had kept the total caseload manageable and avoided excessive strain on the hospital system , he said .
But the government can not “ open up everything and endanger the entire population of Ukraine , because there will immediately be a big outbreak and a peak in the development of this disease , ” Stepanov said .
Even after the lockdown is lifted , “ there are some things that we will still have to observe , for example , everything related to personal disinfection , protection , everything about handshaking , ” he said .
“ COVID changed the world . ”
Ukraine has 10,406 coronavirus cases and 261 deaths .
Medical workers account for 2,063 of cases .
Stepanov said his biggest worry was the high rate of infections among doctors — about a fifth of all cases .
The government has tripled salaries of medical staff working with patients who have the COVID-19 respiratory disease that the coronavirus can cause .
Ukraine is ramping up its testing rate to 8,000 - 10,0000 a day next month from around 5,820 now , he said .
“ In general , the incidence of medical workers is my biggest headache .
And I am very worried about this , ” said Stepanov , who took office at the end of March after his predecessor was fired after less than a month in charge .
Stepanov said the government was increasing stocks of personal protective equipment both to fight coronavirus now and against any second wave of infections .
“ At the beginning of the epidemic , personal protective equipment was completely lacking , ” he said .
“ THINK ABOUT YOUR LOVED ONES ”
The government shut businesses such as cafes , restaurants , markets and cinemas last month , closed its borders to foreign citizens and shut down almost all air and rail travel , causing an increase in job losses .
Anger at the lockdown led to hundreds of businessmen protesting near the government building on Wednesday .
The government has extended the lockdown until May 11 and expects the pandemic to peak in Ukraine early next month .
But there are growing signs of public impatience .
“ What do we see in the last days ?
We see rallies , people on the streets , we see traffic jams , we see an increase in the number of people in parks .
I understand that being in quarantine for five , six weeks is very difficult , ” Stepanov told a briefing after the interview .
“ When you go out to rallies or when you start violating the quarantine , do n’t think about just yourself .
Think about your loved ones whom you can infect by becoming infected at such events . ”
Reporting by Ilya Zhegulev and Pavel Polityuk ; writing by Matthias Williams ; Editing by Hugh Lawson and Timothy Heritage

German social distancing will be extended to May 10: Merkel aide .
2020-04-30 13:03:54 +00:00 .
BERLIN ( Reuters ) - Social distancing measures in Germany will be extended until May 10 , Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s chief of staff said ahead of a high - level meeting on Thursday to review coronavirus lockdown restrictions .
The cyclist rides past the skyline with its banking district during sunset in Frankfurt , Germany , April 29 , 2020 , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues .
REUTERS /
Kai Pfaffenbach Helge Braun said Merkel and state government leaders will discuss plans to reopen schools and nurseries and resume sports events , but wait until May 6 for data on what effects the first steps to ease the lockdown have had before moving again .
“ The contact restrictions will certainly now be extended until May 10 for the time being , ” Braun told broadcaster n - tv .
Germany , Europe ’s largest and most pivotal economy , began easing its lockdown last week when some shops were allowed to open provided they practised strict social distancing .
But Merkel and government advisers are worried about the coronavirus infection rate rising anew .
German news agency DPA reported that museums , exhibitions , memorials , zoos and botanical gardens would be able to reopen if they can meet requirements to minimise the risk of contagion .
A 10 million euro ( $ 10.88 million ) fund would help museums carry out any modifications needed .
It was unclear from which date this would be applied and in some states , such as Berlin , gardens and zoos are already open .
Focus magazine reported that church services would also resume .
The virus reproduction rate in Germany is currently estimated at 0.76 on average , the Robert Koch Institute ( RKI ) for infectious diseases said on Thursday .
That marked a dip from 0.96 earlier this week .
A number of 0.76 means that , on average , 100 people infected with COVID-19 infect 76 other people .
This would mean the number of new infections would come down over time .
Nonetheless , RKI President Lothar Wieler told a news conference : “ I can only warn you all not to be too lax with this virus , not to underestimate it .
“ This virus has a number of characteristics that I do not want to expose to anyone - neither to myself nor to my children , to put it bluntly , ” he added .
VIRAL LOADS
The education ministers of Germany ’s 16 federal states agreed on Tuesday that schools would slowly reopen classes for all grades by the summer holidays , although pupils would have to work and learn in smaller groups .
Late on Wednesday , Christian Drosten , virologist at Berlin ’s Charite hospital , pointed to the results of a study he led that indicated “ viral loads in the very young do not differ significantly from those of adults ” .
“ Based on these results , we have to caution against an unlimited reopening of schools and kindergartens in the present situation , ” the study concluded .
“ Children may be as infectious as adults . ”
The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany has risen by 1,478 to 159,119 , RKI data showed earlier on Thursday .
They showed 6,288 people have died of the disease , a rise of 173 compared to Wednesday but still well below the death tolls of European peers like Italy , Britain , Spain and France .
Editing by Michelle Martin and Mark Heinrich

Russia's Sibur to start LPG supplies to India in May as European demand tumbles .
2020-04-30 12:01:53 +00:00 .
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) - Russia ’s largest petrochemical company Sibur will supply two cargoes of liquefied petroleum gas ( LPG ) to India in May for the first time ever as it looks for new markets after demand in Europe fell sharply due to the coronavirus outbreak , according to traders and shipping data .
Most European countries have been in lockdown since March amid the coronavirus pandemic , causing a drastic fall in fuel consumption .
As LPG is widely used in Europe as motor fuel , it was hard hit by a lack of demand .
In India , though , LPG demand is seen rising this year despite the coronavirus as it is mostly used by private households as cooking gas and therefore in demand during the lockdown .
In March , LPG sales in India rose about 1.9 % from February to 2.31 million tonnes , according to data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell ( PPAC ) of the oil ministry .
Moreover , Indian authorities announced at the end of March that the state would provide free cooking gas cylinders to poorer citizens for three months , under a scheme meant to nudge them to adopt the cleaner fuel .
The move is expected to trigger a surge in LPG sales later this year .
Sibur loaded a vessel , Navigator Luga , with 12,700 tonnes of butane on board on April 18 and another vessel , Navigator Libra , carrying 11,900 tonnes of propane on April 21 from Ust - Luga port for delivery to India ’s Nhava Sheva port close to Mumbai , according to shipping data from Refinitiv Eikon .
The vessels are expected to arrive on May 11 and 14 respectively , the data shows .
According to traders , more shipments of Russian LPG to India in the coming months are currently being negotiated .
Sibur LPG production reached 6.45 million tonnes in 2019 , of which about a half was exported , according to the company ’s data .
Most of Sibur ’s LPG sea exports were to northwest Europe in 2019 , according to Refinitiv Eikon data .
Sibur did n’t immediately reply to a Reuters request for comment .
Writing by Olga Yagova ;
Editing by Susan Fenton

Thyssenkrupp taps 1 billion euro in state aid amid cash squeeze before elevator sale .
2020-04-30 11:46:42 +00:00 .
FRANKFURT ( Reuters ) -
Thyssenkrupp
( TKAG.DE ) has secured about 1 billion euros ( $ 1.1 billion ) of state aid to tide it over until it receives the money from the sale of its elevator division , two sources said on Thursday , the latest German company to tap government funding .
FILE PHOTO :
Thyssenkrupp 's logo is seen outside the elevator test tower in Rottweil , Germany , January 21 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Michaela
Rehle
The loan from state development bank KfW expires at the end of September , one of the sources close to the matter said , adding that the industrial conglomerate was suffering from slow demand for auto parts after carmakers shut down production because of the COVID 19 pandemic .
The sources declined to be identified because the terms are confidential .
Thyssenkrupp agreed to sell its elevators division to a consortium comprising Advent , Cinven and Germany ’s RAG foundation for 17.2 billion euros in February and is hoping for the money to arrive in June.[nL5N2AR8WM ] Car makers and suppliers have scrambled to shore up their liquidity as car sales in Europe tumbled by more than 50 % in March .
Thyssen is joining some of Germany ’s best - known companies including Lufthansa ( LHAG.DE ) , Adidas ( ADSGn . DE ) , Puma ( PUMG.DE ) that are taking out state - guaranteed loans as part of the federal government ’s aid package to deal with the coronavirus crisis .
Pummelled by ill - fated investments , a downturn in the car market , multiple leadership changes and an overly complex group structure that was tackled too late , Thyssenkrupp ’s shares hit historic lows around 3.2 euros in mid - March .
They have since recovered slightly and were up 0.7 % on Thursday at 6.29 euros at 1108 GMT , outperforming the broader stock market , but well off levels above 26 euros reached three years ago .
As part of its restructuring , the company has put other units up for sale such as the Plant Technology division , which builds cement , chemicals and fertiliser plants .
Just before the COVID 19 crisis broke , it also sounded the market for buyers of its steel trading Material Services unit with the help of investment bank Citi , the first source said .
That process has , however , now been put on hold as investors are shying away from acquisitions in the current market environment , the source said .
Thyssenkrupp , state bank KfW and Citi declined to comment .
Handelsblatt earlier reported news of the state aid for Thyssen .
Reporting by Arno Schuetze and Tom Käckenhoff ;
Editing by Sabine Wollrab , Madeline Chambers and Josephine Mason

Clash of tech titans: Zuckerberg praises coronavirus lockdowns; Musk sees 'fascism' .
2020-04-30 02:18:50 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Silicon Valley billionaires Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg offered dueling views on lockdown measures designed to slow the spread of the coronavirus on Wednesday , with Facebook ’s Zuckerberg endorsing the measures while Tesla ’s Musk condemned them as anti - democratic .
FILE PHOTO :
Facebook Chairman and CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies at a House Financial Services Committee hearing in Washington , U.S. , October 23 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Erin Scott Musk , who has often made outspoken and even inflammatory comments on conference calls and on Twitter , said in comments to analysts on Tesla Inc ’s ( TSLA.O ) earnings call that it was “ fascist ” to say people can not leave their homes .
“ This is not democratic , this is not freedom .
Give people back their goddamn freedom , ” Musk said .
Zuckerberg , on the other hand , in comments on Facebook ’s ( FB.O ) own earnings calls , expressed concerns about easing lockdown measure and said the economic fallout from the pandemic would last longer than people are currently anticipating .
“ I worry that reopening certain places too quickly before infection rates have been reduced to very minimal levels will almost guarantee future outbreaks and worse longer - term health and economic outcomes , ” he said .
Both companies are based in the San Francisco Bay area , which was out front in trying to slow the virus ’ spread , with the region ’s seven counties issuing a joint shelter - in - place order before California issued a statewide order .
Electric carmaker Tesla and social media network Facebook have had different experiences under the lockdown .
Tesla had initially resisted efforts by California authorities to shut its plant in the Bay Area under the lockdown , until agreeing on March 19 to suspend production .
Even so , Tesla on Wednesday reported its third profitable quarter in a row .
Facebook , the world ’s largest social network , on Wednesday said usage rose during the first quarter amid the widespread lockdowns , although ad revenue plunged in March .
Musk did not mince words in criticizing the lockdowns .
“ So the extension of the shelter - in - place or , frankly , I would call it , forcibly imprisoning people in their homes against all their constitutional rights , in my opinion , breaking people ’s freedoms in ways that are horrible and wrong and not why people came to America or built this country , ” Musk said , swearing to underscore his point .
“ It will cause great harm , not just to Tesla , but to any companies .
And while Tesla will weather the storm , there are many small companies that will not , ” he said .
Zuckerberg and Musk , who is also chief executive of rocket company SpaceX , have had differences in the past .
In 2017 , a war of words broke out between the duo over whether robots will become smart enough to kill their human creators .
“ I ’ve talked to Mark about this .
His understanding of the subject is limited . ”
Musk tweeted at the time about Zuckerberg , who downplayed Musk ’s warnings about the danger of artificial intelligence .
In May 2018 , Musk made waves on another earnings call when he refused to analysts ’ questions , saying that “ boring , bonehead questions are not cool . ”
He later apologized for his remarks .
Reporting by Munsif Vengattil in Bengaluru , additional reporting by Akanksha Rana ; editing by Peter Henderson and Leslie Adler

Florida governor excludes greater Miami from initial coronavirus reopening .
2020-04-29 22:26:18 +00:00 .
MIAMI ( Reuters ) -
The governor of Florida , whose state was among the last to be locked down against the U.S. coronavirus outbreak , announced on Wednesday he would permit limited economic reopening next week while leaving restraints in place for the greater Miami area .
Rescue workers push a stretcher with a patient outside the ER area at Holy Cross Hospital , amid an outbreak of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Fort Lauderdale , Florida , U.S. , April 20 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Marco Bello
Under the Phase One plan for relaxing mandatory business closures imposed at the start of the month , Governor Ron DeSantis said retail merchants and restaurants could welcome customers back inside their establishments starting Monday , but admissions will be limited to 25 % of capacity .
Eateries may also reopen outdoor seating with appropriate social distancing , and medical practices can resume elective surgeries and procedures , DeSantis , the Republican governor of a key electoral swing state , said at a news conference .
But movie theaters , bars and fitness clubs will remain shuttered for the time being , he said .
The governor ’s plan also leaves existing restrictions in place for all commercial establishments in the densely populated South Florida metropolitan region consisting of Miami - Dade , Broward and Palm Beach counties .
Florida has a high proportion of elderly residents , who are especially vulnerable to the virus , and waited until early April to clamp down on commerce - after most other states had already done so .
But Florida has avoided the worst of the health crisis seen in other states such as New York and New Jersey .
Still , Florida becomes the most populous of about a dozen states forging ahead with economic reopenings despite a lack of wide - scale virus testing and the means to trace close contacts of newly infected individuals , as recommended by White House guidelines on April 16 .
“ Part of our strategy in Phase One is to expand testing , ” DeSantis said , adding that Florida would increase walk - up virus screening sites to 11 throughout the state .
“ We want to be able to spot trends in the under - served communities . ”
With millions of Americans out of jobs since stay - at - home orders were imposed across the country , pressure has been mounting on governors to ease restrictions .
Public health experts have urged caution , saying that a rollback of social distancing without large - scale virus testing or the means to trace close contacts of infected individuals could trigger a second wave of infections .
U.S. deaths from the novel coronavirus topped 60,000 on Wednesday and the outbreak will soon be deadlier than any flu season since 1967 , according to a Reuters tally .
Reporting by Zach Fagenson in Miami ; Additional reporting by Maria Caspani , Barbara Goldberg and Jessica Resnick - Ault in New York and Susan Heavey and Doina Chiacu in Washington ; Writing by Sonya Hepinstall and Steve Gorman ;
Editing by Howard Goller and Cynthia Osterman

Breakingviews - moviegoers will never again fill theaters .
2020-04-29 21:35:24 +00:00 .
Deckchairs sit stacked outside a closed movie theater during the global outbreak of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) in Santa Monica , California , U.S. , March 16 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Lucy Nicholson NEW YORK ( Reuters Breakingviews ) - Dark movie theaters may just be a taste of the near future .
Even before Covid-19 completely shut down projectors at venues offered by the likes of AMC Entertainment , attendance was in decline and streaming services like Netflix on the rise .
AMC is fighting back , but the notion that America ’s cinemas will fill up again may be as quaint as a silent film .
With everyone stuck at home , Hollywood has time to figure out more ways to cut out the exhibitors .
Comcast ’s NBC Universal released “ Trolls World Tour ” on April 10 directly to people ’s homes and made several other movies already showing on big screens available to rent for $ 20 .
There are incentives to wiggle around theaters .
In general box - office ticket sales are split 50 - 50 between exhibitors and studios .
With streaming services like Netflix or Amazon.com or through traditional cable , studios keep about 80 % of the take .
The “ Trolls ” sequel broke first - day and opening - weekend records for Universal ’s home - entertainment unit , racking up some 10 times the previous record receipts for a digital release .
It has now brought in nearly $ 100 million in rentals , the Wall Street Journal reported this week .
In terms of revenue for Comcast , that makes it more lucrative than the original ’s $ 154 million in gross domestic U.S. box - office receipts to date .
Netflix has changed the game too .
The firm led by Reed Hastings mostly bypasses theaters for its original movies , instead choosing to use releases like “ Roma ” as a way to hook potential subscribers .
Lockdown has accelerated the company ’s subscriber growth .
Many of the largest studios ’ parent companies , notably Walt Disney , Comcast and ATT , now have streaming services .
Disney pushed its upcoming flick “ Artemis Fowl ” to its online Disney+ platform for a June release rather than wait until theaters reopen .
The number of Americans trekking to box offices is in long - term decline from a peak in 2002 with 1.6 billion tickets sold .
From lockdown AMC , which bills itself as the largest exhibitor in America , Europe and the world , is resisting :
On Tuesday it said it would boycott Universal ’s films in light of the studio parent ’s comments about digital releases .
AMC ’s stock jumped more than 20 % the next day , but its market value is still only about a quarter of the $ 2 billion it was worth shortly after going public in 2013 .
The fresh damage from the pandemic may never be reversed .
Breakingviews Reuters Breakingviews is the world 's leading source of agenda - setting financial insight .
As the Reuters brand for financial commentary , we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day .
A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York , London , Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time .
Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com .
All opinions expressed are those of the authors .

Tesla's profit run not derailed by coronavirus, full-year forecast scrapped .
2020-04-29 20:49:04 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Tesla Inc ( TSLA.O ) on Wednesday posted its third quarterly profit in a row , but said the novel coronavirus was hurting deliveries and lockdown restrictions made it impossible for the electric carmaker to provide guidance for the full year .
FILE PHOTO :
People wearing face masks are seen inside a Tesla showroom at a shopping mall in Wuhan , Hubei province , the epicentre of China 's coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , March 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Aly Song
Tesla said it could not predict how quickly vehicle manufacturing and global supply chains will normalize , saying it would revisit full - year guidance for net income and cash flow when it reports current - quarter results in three months .
Shares of the company were up more than 8 % at $ 870 in extended trade .
The COVID-19 pandemic caused by the new coronavirus has disrupted demand for cars , with automakers including Tesla forced to furlough workers , and fueled uncertainty over when and how supply chains will return to normalcy once the curbs are eased .
Tesla ’s report of a profitable quarter comes just a day after Detroit - based rival Ford Motor Co ( F.N ) reported a $ 2 billion first - quarter loss and forecast losing another $ 5 billion in the current quarter as the coronavirus pandemic hits demand .
Vehicle demand in the United States has dropped as much as 80 % in some hard - hit areas in March , but some analysts said sales appeared to recover slightly in the first two weeks of April .
Tesla on Wednesday said it expected production at its vehicle factories in Fremont , California and in Shanghai , China to ramp gradually through the second quarter .
The electric carmaker did not say when it planned to resume production in Fremont .
Alameda County , where the factory is based , on Wednesday extended stay - at - home orders until May 31 .
While some essential businesses are allowed to operate before then , vehicle manufacturing does not fall under the exemptions .
Earlier this month , Tesla said production and deliveries of its Model Y sports utility vehicle was significantly ahead of schedule , as it delivered the highest number of vehicles in any first quarter to date , despite the outbreak .
Revenue rose to $ 5.99 billion from $ 4.54 billion during the same quarter last year .
Analysts had expected revenue of $ 5.90 billion for the latest quarter , according to IBES data from Refinitiv .
Excluding items , Tesla posted a profit of $ 1.24 per share .
Analysts had expected a loss of 36 cents per share .
Reporting by Akanksha Rana in Bengaluru and Tina Bellon in New York ; Editing by Bernard Orr and
Lisa Shumaker

Pompeo says no sight of North Korea's Kim, real risk of famine in country .
2020-04-29 20:28:40 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -
The United States has caught no sight of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and is watching reports about his health , U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Wednesday , adding there was a real risk of famine in the country amid the coronavirus outbreak .
FILE PHOTO :
U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo speaks at a press briefing at the State Department in Washington , U.S. , April 22 , 2020 .
Nicholas Kamm / Pool via REUTERS North Korean media has not reported on Kim ’s whereabouts since he presided over a meeting on April 11 , provoking speculation about his health and raising concerns about instability in the nuclear - armed country that could affect other North Asian countries and the United States .
“ We have n’t seen him .
We do n’t have any information to report today , we ’re watching it closely , ” Pompeo told Fox News after being asked about conflicting reports about Kim ’s health .
Pompeo said the United States was also monitoring the situation more broadly in North Korea , which borders China , given the risk presented by the coronavirus .
“ There is a real risk that there will be a famine , a food shortage , inside of North Korea too , ” he added .
“ We ’re watching each of those things closely , as they have a real impact on our mission set , which to ultimately denuclearize North Korea . ”
Officials in South Korea and the United States have said Kim may be staying at North Korea ’s coastal resort of Wonsan to avoid exposure to the new coronavirus , and have expressed skepticism about media reports that he had some kind of serious illness .
They caution , however , that Kim ’s health and location are closely guarded secrets and reliable information is difficult to obtain from secretive North Korea .
On Saturday , a U.S.-based North Korea monitoring project , 38 North , said satellite images showed what was believed to be Kim ’s personal train parked at a station reserved for his use in Wonsan on April 21 and 23 .
New images taken on Wednesday showed a train in the same position , but it was unclear whether it had been there since last week , 38 North said .
On Tuesday , another North Korea - monitoring website , NK PRO , reported that commercial satellite imagery showed boats often used by Kim had moved in patterns suggesting he or his entourage may be in the Wonsan area .
38
North said that in its new images , the train did not appear to be prepared for departure as the engine could no longer be seen parked alongside its south end .
It said the train ’s presence did not prove Kim ’s presence , but the station was reserved for the exclusive use of the Kim family , “ lending weight to the multiple reports that Kim has been staying in the Wonsan area . ”
Pompeo told a later State Department news conference the United States would continue to focus on North Korean denuclearization , “ no matter what transpires there . ”
President Donald Trump met Kim three times in 2018 and 2019 in an attempt to persuade him to give up a nuclear weapons program that threatens the United States .
While talks have stalled , Trump has continued to hail Kim as a friend .
Pompeo did not elaborate on the risk of famine in North Korea , but a North Korean economic delegation was due in Beijing this week to discuss food supplies and trade issues as the coronavirus outbreak has severely disrupted the country ’s food supply , two people with direct knowledge of the situation told Reuters .
Impoverished and isolated North Korea is prone to food shortages .
As many as 1.1 million people died during the famines of the 1990s , according to South Korean estimates .
Reporting by David Brunnstrom ; additional reporting by Jonathan Landay ;
editing by Jonathan Oatis

Yemen records multiple coronavirus cases for first time; U.N. fears more .
2020-04-29 19:02:02 +00:00 .
ADEN ( Reuters ) - Yemeni authorities reported multiple coronavirus infections for the first time on Wednesday after the United Nations said it feared the disease could be spreading undetected in a country where millions face famine and lack medical care .
FILE PHOTO :
Health workers wearing protective suits pose for a picture before being deployed to disinfect streets amid concerns of the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Sanaa , Yemen April 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Khaled Abdullah
The five new COVID-19 cases were detected in Aden , a southern port which is interim headquarters of a government ousted from the capital Sanaa more than five years ago by the Iran - aligned Houthi group in a war that has created the world ’s largest humanitarian crisis .
Previously Yemen had detected only a single case .
International health officials have long warned that Yemen ’s population could be extremely vulnerable to an outbreak , which would be difficult to detect in a country where health infrastructure has been degraded by poverty and war .
An emergency committee for coronavirus maintained by the Aden - based government said in a tweet that it would release more details about the five new cases .
Authorities told Reuters they have been unable to track down “ patient zero ” for Yemen ’s infections , an important step in tracing people potentially exposed to infection and containing an outbreak .
On Tuesday the United Nations said there was a “ very real probability ” the virus was circulating within communities .
Health workers say the virus could spread rapidly in a country where 24 million people - 80 % of the population - rely on aid , and 10 million are at risk of famine .
Yemen ’s only previous laboratory - confirmed case was detected on April 10 in the southern port of Ash Shihr .
The 60 - year - old port official has since recovered and tested negative for the virus , the committee said on Monday .
Two sources familiar with the matter have told Reuters there has been at least one confirmed case in the capital Sanaa , which is controlled by the Houthis .
But the Houthi Health Ministry denied this and said all suspected cases had tested negative for COVID-19 .
On Wednesday the Aden - based government ’s emergency coronavirus committee said it had concerns that Sanaa authorities were not admitting to a coronavirus outbreak there .
Responding to the newly confirmed cases , authorities in Aden announced a three - day , 24 - hour curfew starting at midnight .
The announcement came from the Southern Transitional Council ( STC ) , a separatist group that declared self - rule on Sunday in southern Yemeni governorates including Aden .
Mosques were also closed until further notice in Aden , and shopping centres and restaurants for two weeks .
Markets selling qat , the mildly stimulant green leaf chewed daily by many Yemenis , will continue to be closed across all southern governorates and its sale banned in and around towns .
Wholesalers will be asked to store a certain amount of reserve goods , before certain amounts are allowed for export , the STC statement said .
Reporting by Nafisa Eltahir in Dubai and Mohammed Ghobari and Mohammed Mukhashaf in Yemen ; Writing by Lisa Barrington ; Editing by Alison Williams and
Mark Heinrich

Labs see bottlenecks in France's plan to scale-up COVID-19 testing .
2020-04-29 15:30:52 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) -
The leaders of two federations representing thousands of private laboratories across France cast doubt on the country ’s ability to more than double coronavirus testing before the country begins unwinding its lockdown on May 11 .
FILE PHOTO :
A French doctor wearing a protective suit works in a testing site for the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Gouzeaucourt , France , April 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Pascal Rossignol/
The industry officials cited two looming bottlenecks : a potential shortage of workers able to conduct tests and the availability of government - approved reagents , with countries around the world racing to get hold of testing kits .
Mass testing is critical to France ’s ability to emerge safely from a now six - week old lockdown .
France will switch to an aggressive doctrine on COVID-19 testing from May 11 , aiming for 700,000 nasal swab tests per week , Prime Minister Edouard Philippe on Tuesday said .
This means France must nearly triple its current capacity in just a fortnight .
“ I ’m not sure this goal of 700,000 is reasonable , ” Francois Blanchecotte , head of the Syndicat des Biologistes federation representing some 4,000 labs , told Reuters .
“ One limitation will be the number of people able to do testing on such a scale . ”
France is not alone in scrambling to test more widely .
Britain was on track to meet a target of 100,000 tests per day by Thursday , its health minister said this week , although recent data shows about 43,000 daily tests being completed .
Swab tests involve collecting a sample from either a person ’s nasal passage or throat .
A reagent is then added to determine whether there is an infection .
France has authorised about 40 reagents for use in COVID-19 testing , manufactured by large pharmaceutical groups like Switzerland ’s Roche and the United States ’ Abbott Laboratories , as well as small and mid - sized companies .
SCRAMBLE FOR REAGENTS
Lionel Barrand , who leads the Syndicat National des Jeunes Biologistes Medicaux federation , cautioned this number might be inadequate and that laboratories were already having difficulties sourcing reagents in France and from abroad .
China , where the global pandemic originated , is an important source market of reagents .
“ Will there be enough reagents ?
We ’re still seeing tensions on supply at a national level , ” Barrand said .
France had the logistics to scale up testing , he said .
“ But that will work only if we have enough reagents and swabs . ”
A health ministry spokeswoman said France had taken steps with international suppliers to secure supplies of reagents .
Meanwhile the French health industry regulator had approved a new locally made cotton swab to ease pressure on swab imports .
Countries around the world hope blood tests meant to show whether people exposed to the disease have developed antibodies thought to offer some immunity will also guide efforts to restart their economies .
But serological testing has so far proved unreliable and questions persist over the human body ’s immunity memory after coronavirus infection .
That places more pressure on nasal swab testing .
Barrand said clarity was needed on which symptoms — which include headaches , fever , dry coughs and a loss of taste — necessitated testing .
“ If every person presenting with a small symptom turns up , the system will collapse , ” he said .
Reporting by Matthias Blamont ;
Editing by Richard and William Maclean

Online courses replace kindergarten for Ukrainian preschoolers .
2020-04-29 13:34:29 +00:00 .
7 - year - old Mykhailo Bondarenko and his sister Maria , 10 , do yoga exercises as they attend an online class as part of a municipal program for preschoolers " Online Kindergarten " , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Kiev , Ukraine April 27 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Valentyn Ogirenko KIEV ( Reuters ) -
Sharing a pilates mat , brother and sister Mykhailo and Maria Bondarenko practise basic yoga moves at home , following the instructions of a trainer via laptop .
They are on a course run by Education Hub and aimed at Ukrainian children aged seven or younger , now under lockdown with their parents following the closure of all schools as part of measures to contain the coronavirus outbreak .
“ We wanted to create a project which would help parents to get a bit of free time for housekeeping or work as many people moved to remote work , ” the Kiev - based organisation ’s director Mariya Boguslav told Reuters .
“ It is very hard to work with little troublemakers of 4 - 6 years old around . ”
As well as yoga , its ‘ Online Kindergarten ’ series offers English and drawing lessons , and courses on developing memory , imagination and concentration .
New webcasts - including some featuring showbiz stars - are posted every day and the site attracts up to 30,000 visitors daily .
Boguslav said around 100,000 people registered in the first hours after the initiative launched .
Imposed on March 16 , Ukraine ’s lockdown is currently due to end on May 11 .
editing by John Stonestreet

Boxing: Olympic dream uncertain for Thai boxer after virus knocks out plans .
2020-04-29 11:18:00 +00:00 .
BANGKOK ( Reuters ) - Five days a week for four hours a day , Thai boxer Chatchai - decha Butdee continues to train as best he can for the Tokyo Olympics , now postponed until at least 2021 because of the new coronavirus pandemic .
Chatchai - decha Butdee , 35 , a boxer who planned to gracefully retire after the Tokyo 2020 Olympics , trains during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Bangkok , Thailand , April 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Chalinee
Thirasupa Chatchai - decha , a four - time Southeast Asia Games champion , hopes his third Olympic Games can bring a career - capping medal in the featherweight division , after he was defeated in early rounds in 2012 and 2016 .
But at age 35 , he is afraid the delayed Tokyo Olympics may mean he could pass his prime fighting days before the Games can be held .
“ I originally planned to end my career after this year ’s Olympic Games as I ’m getting older , ” Chatchai - decha told Reuters .
“ If the Olympics have to be postponed for another two to three years , I would just give up my place in the Games . ”
For now , he remains on a strict training schedule with the 2021 event in sight .
With Bangkok ’s boxing gyms closed for safety reasons , he has to make do with what he has .
He runs 5 kilometres , swings weights in a narrow alley near his home and shadow boxes in car parks .
“ I was a bit frustrated , because according to the plan laid out by the Thai Boxing Federation , I am supposed to be in France right now , gathering ( boxing ) experience and studying my opponents .
But now that things have changed , we ’re back to square one , ” said Chatchai - decha .
Chatchai - decha began boxing at the age of 8 , his professional years since 2000 .
He won bronze in the flyweight division at the 2013 world championships in Almaty .
The Olympic Games , originally set to start in July this year , have been rescheduled for 2021 , to be held from July 23 to Aug. 8 .
Tokyo 2020 president Yoshiro Mori said in an interview published on Tuesday that the Games would be “ scrapped ” if they could not take place in the next year .
Writing by Kay Johnson ;
Editing by Christian Radnedge

Nightly show in Swiss block helps beat lockdown blues .
2020-04-29 11:10:10 +00:00 .
GENEVA ( Reuters ) - Dressed in a black trench coat and hat , 36 - year - old Audrey Lecomte performed “ Singing in the Rain ” on a drizzly Tuesday evening to the residents of Geneva ’s Round House apartment complex , who twirled umbrellas from balconies to the music .
Residents of the St - Jean apartments building take part in their choir session , when they sing to entertain themselves , during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Geneva , Switzerland April 28 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Denis Balibouse The nightly 6 pm “ choir ” at the 1920s block , a 6 - storey architectural monument built in a semi - circle , has become a way to cheer each other up during Switzerland ’s national lockdown to stop the spread of COVID-19 , now in its seventh week .
“ There is music , it swings , that ’s a good thing , ” said Daniele Salins , a 75 - year - old resident who joined in the dancing .
“ It feels good , it takes our mind off our problems , otherwise , if you look at the news , it ’s very exhausting . ”
The tradition started in mid - March when the Swiss lockdown began and residents sing and dance to a handful of songs every night except Sundays , taking turns to choose the music .
Switzerland has reported nearly 30,000 cases of COVID-19 and more than 1,350 deaths , but case loads are easing and Berne has begun to relax measures which were never as strict as in neighboring France or Italy .
The dozens of kids in the building look forward to the evening “ show ” and passers - by stop and watch with kids and dogs .
“ The children , who ca n’t play with each other , they at least get to see each other , ” said Tessa , a resident and 39 - year - old speech therapist and mother of two young boys .
“ There is closure for the day with a feeling of warmth and togetherness . ”
One resident danced with a baby in her arms and another family blew bubbles .
They also sang happy birthday to a beaming 11 - year - old boy on a balloon - adorned balcony .
The choir is not the building ’s only initiative under lockdown .
They also held a relay - style marathon this month with each resident running laps around the courtyard to cheers as well as balcony quizzes and movie nights .
It is the spirit sought by late architect Maurice Braillard who designed the building , shaped like a Roman theatre , to encourage interaction .
“ We went from being residents and neighbours to being a big family , ” Lecomte told Reuters .
“ It has become more and more magical as time has passed . ”
Residents say they want to continue the choir after lockdown ends .
The tentative end date is May 11 when schools resume .
“ We are thinking of keeping it as a ritual every Sunday , ” said Marion , a resident and mother .
“ Otherwise , we are afraid we will miss it when confinement ends . ”
Additional reporting by Denis Balibouse ;
Editing by Alexandra Hudson

Indians switch to bank deposits as concerns grow over debt funds .
2020-04-29 11:02:40 +00:00 .
MUMBAI ( Reuters ) -
Rattled by the shock closure of some high - profile domestic funds investing in high - yielding debt , Indian investors are quickly moving their cash into the safety of bank deposits .
FILE PHOTO :
Commuters walk past a bank sign along a road in New Delhi , India November 25 , 2015 .
REUTERS /
Anindito Mukherjee Bankers told Reuters they have seen heavy inflows into their traditional deposit schemes after one of India ’s most prominent mutual fund houses in fixed income , Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund , said last week it was shutting down six credit funds .
Templeton wound up the funds due to a lack of liquidity in markets battered by the coronavirus pandemic .
Their combined assets of about 280 billion rupees ( almost $ 4 billion ) had large exposures to higher - yielding , lower - rated credit securities .
As spooked investors called for a government intervention and debt mutual funds saw record withdrawals , traditional bank deposits have gained .
“ Bank deposits have picked up , as a lot of money that is getting redeemed from mutual funds is also coming to banks now , ” said Sumant Kathpalia , CEO of IndusInd Bank .
Flush with cash , banks have cut deposit rates .
The weighted - average deposit rate of commercial banks is down 45 basis points since February 2019 .
Still , bank deposits grew by 9.45 % year - on - year in two weeks ended April 10 compared with a 7.93 % rise two weeks prior .
While up - to - date figures on the flows into deposits after the Templeton news will only be known next month , growth is expected to remain in low double digits in the coming months , said an executive director at a state - run bank .
Mutual funds investing in debt saw outflows of close to 1.95 trillion rupees ( $ 25.5 billion ) last month .
Retail investors have for long been flocking to tax - friendly debt mutual fund schemes on the promise that they are as safe as bank deposits and with little concern for potential credit risks in case of a default .
In 2017 , credit opportunity funds , which invest mostly in higher - yielding bonds with ratings below the top AAA investment grade , saw record inflows .
That changed a year later as a string of defaults at a major infrastructure lender sucked liquidity out of the corporate bond market .
An economic slowdown in 2019 triggered more debt defaults and exposed fault lines in the credit space .
The tipping point came last month as many investors redeemed their funds to preserve cash during a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus , and funds such as Templeton took a hit .
Prateek Pant , co - founder of Sanctum Wealth Management , said he was facing a barrage of calls from investors worried about the safety of their debt investments .
“ Overall , debt funds as a category is fine .
But if you ’re really losing your sleep because of that , then go ahead and put that money in a bank right now , ” Pant said .
Reporting by Nupur Anand and Abhirup Roy ;
Editing by Simon Cameron - Moore

Indians switch to bank deposits as concerns grow over debt funds .
2020-04-29 10:58:51 +00:00 .
MUMBAI , April 29 ( Reuters ) -
Rattled by the shock closure of some high - profile domestic funds investing in high - yielding debt , Indian investors are quickly moving their cash into the safety of bank deposits .
Bankers told Reuters they have seen heavy inflows into their traditional deposit schemes after one of India ’s most prominent mutual fund houses in fixed income , Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund , said last week it was shutting down six credit funds .
Templeton wound up the funds due to a lack of liquidity in markets battered by the coronavirus pandemic .
Their combined assets of about 280 billion rupees ( almost $ 4 billion ) had large exposures to higher - yielding , lower - rated credit securities .
As spooked investors called for a government intervention and debt mutual funds saw record withdrawals , traditional bank deposits have gained .
“ Bank deposits have picked up , as a lot of money that is getting redeemed from mutual funds is also coming to banks now , ” said Sumant Kathpalia , CEO of IndusInd Bank .
Flush with cash , banks have cut deposit rates .
The weighted - average deposit rate of commercial banks is down 45 basis points since February 2019 .
Still , bank deposits grew by 9.45 % year - on - year in two weeks ended April 10 compared with a 7.93 % rise two weeks prior .
While up - to - date figures on the flows into deposits after the Templeton news will only be known next month , growth is expected to remain in low double digits in the coming months , said an executive director at a state - run bank .
Mutual funds investing in debt saw outflows of close to 1.95 trillion rupees ( $ 25.5 billion ) last month .
Retail investors have for long been flocking to tax - friendly debt mutual fund schemes on the promise that they are as safe as bank deposits and with little concern for potential credit risks in case of a default .
In 2017 , credit opportunity funds , which invest mostly in higher - yielding bonds with ratings below the top AAA investment grade , saw record inflows .
That changed a year later as a string of defaults at a major infrastructure lender sucked liquidity out of the corporate bond market .
An economic slowdown in 2019 triggered more debt defaults and exposed fault lines in the credit space .
The tipping point came last month as many investors redeemed their funds to preserve cash during a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus , and funds such as Templeton took a hit .
Prateek Pant , co - founder of Sanctum Wealth Management , said he was facing a barrage of calls from investors worried about the safety of their debt investments .
“ Overall , debt funds as a category is fine .
But if you ’re really losing your sleep because of that , then go ahead and put that money in a bank right now , ” Pant said .
( Reporting by Nupur Anand and Abhirup Roy ;
Editing by Simon Cameron - Moore )

Locked in under lockdown: "we can't complain", say pals stuck in pub .
2020-04-29 08:04:23 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) -
If you are going to be stuck under lockdown , there are worse places to end up than a spacious pub with free beer on tap .
Steve Pond and Dominic Townsend enjoy a pint of beer and a game of chess at The Prince , a pub they share an apartment above and say are lucky enough to be stuck in during lockdown as the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues in London , Britain April 28 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Dylan Martinez Friends Steve Pond and Dom Townsend consider themselves lucky to be sharing an apartment above The Prince in Stoke Newington , north London .
Like all British pubs , it is closed until further notice as part of government measures to slow the spread of the coronavirus .
Inside , chairs are turned upside down on tables , blackboards advertise sporting events long since cancelled and pots and pans gather dust in the kitchen .
“ I moved in just a couple of months before lockdown which has worked out well , considering , ” said Townsend , 29 , now assistant manager after starting there as a barman .
With no crowds to serve , he and Pond , 39 , while away the time playing improvised crazy golf on the wooden floor , taking each other on at chess or cooking barbecues on the roof when the weather is good .
“ We ’ve ended up as friends ...
It ’s been nice .
We ca n’t complain .
We ’ve got fresh beer on tap , ” Townsend told Reuters , pouring Pond a pint and placing it next to the hand sanitizer on the bar .
For Pond , the epidemic was a major worry early on because he has an existing lung condition .
“ So I kind of started to self - isolate a couple of weeks before , but after confirmation from my doctor I found I could go out so that kind of eased it a bit for me .
“ One of the lows I suppose is not having the locals come in .
It ’s lucky me and Dom get on so well . ”
For all the advantages of their situation , they are looking forward to a full house once what seems certain to be the longest lock - in in history finally ends .
Some European countries are beginning to ease their lockdowns but Prime Minister Boris Johnson says it is too early to do so in Britain , where the hospital death toll from COVID-19 has risen to almost 22,000 .
“ A big party ; go out to eat somewhere that I miss ; just see your friends , ” Townsend replied , when asked what he would like to do most when the lockdown was lifted .
“ I think you realise that a lot of the superficial stuff ... now does n’t matter as much .
You want to see your friends , you want to see your family , you want to live a bit ... once this is done . ”
Writing by Mike Collett - White ;
editing by John Stonestreet

Democrat Mfume retakes Maryland congressional seat in special election .
2020-04-29 06:20:36 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Democrat Kweisi Mfume won a special U.S. congressional election in Maryland on Tuesday to finish the term of Democratic Representative Elijah Cummings , who died in October , while Ohio held mostly mail - in primaries in response to the coronavirus pandemic .
Members of the hygiene team clean stations as voters vote at the Franklin County Board of Election office , following the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Columbus , Ohio , U.S. , April 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Paul Vernon Mfume , 71 , who defeated Republican Kim Klacik in the heavily Democratic district that covers parts of Baltimore and central Maryland , is reclaiming a seat he held for five terms before leaving Congress to lead the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People civil rights group .
In Ohio , nominating contests were being conducted after voting originally scheduled for March 17 was delayed and in - person balloting curtailed , as the coronavirus further disrupted the U.S. election season .
Ohio was among the first states to delay its primaries as lockdowns in response to the deadly respiratory virus spread rapidly across the United States last month , leading an unprecedented 1.9 million voters in the state to request absentee ballots .
Some voters , election officials and voting - rights watchdogs warned that the surge had overwhelmed election officials and the U.S. Postal Service , meaning many voters may not have received a ballot in time .
[ nL2N2CB01V }
The Postal Service said in a statement on Monday that it was “ making extraordinary efforts ” to deliver ballots to all eligible voters despite the tight timeline set by the state , which allowed voters to request absentee ballots through April 25 but required all ballots to be postmarked by April 27 .
Ohioans unable to vote by mail were only served by one polling place in each county , compared with more than 4,000 sites in previous elections .
“ No doubt this election makes clear that Ohio has not gone far enough in addressing the significant barriers that voters face during a pandemic , ” Kristen Clarke , president of the Lawyers ’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law , said during a media call , adding that absentee ballot applications should have automatically been sent to voters .
Mike Brickner , Ohio state director of the group All Voting is Local , said during the call that such barriers were likely to yield historically low turnout .
Former Vice President Joe Biden is already the Democratic Party ’s presumptive nominee to take on Republican President Donald Trump in the Nov. 3 election , but other races are on the ballot in Ohio , an electoral battleground state .
One closely watched contest was the Democratic primary for the state ’s 3rd Congressional District , including most of the city of Columbus , where Morgan Harper , 36 , is challenging incumbent Representative Joyce Beatty , 70 .
Harper , a former senior adviser at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , is endorsed by Justice Democrats , a group that has backed progressive candidates in Democratic strongholds , including Representative Alexandria Ocasio - Cortez of New York .
The state had yet to post any results in the race .
Reporting by Simon Lewis in Washington , Jarrett Renshaw in Philadelphia and Michael Martina in Detroit ;
Editing by Peter Cooney

LIVESTOCK-U.S. hogs pare gains as Trump plans order to keep meat plants open .
2020-04-28 22:29:15 +00:00 .
CHICAGO , April 28 ( Reuters ) - U.S. lean hog futures hit a four - week peak on Tuesday on worries about tightening pork supplies as the coronavirus shutters meat processing plants , but the market pared gains on news that President Donald Trump plans to order such sites to stay open .
June lean hog futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange settled up 0.925 cent at 56.200 cents per pound , after rising as high as 60.775 cents , the contract ’s highest since March 31 .
Trump is expected to sign an executive order later on Tuesday using the Defense Production Act to mandate that the meat plants continue to function to protect the country ’s food supply , a senior administration official said .
The world ’s biggest meat companies - including Smithfield Foods Inc , Cargill Inc , JBS USA and Tyson Foods - have halted operations at about 20 slaughterhouses and processing plants in North America since April as workers fall ill .
“ It ’s a step in the right direction , because in a roundabout way , what ( Trump ) is saying is , we have to find more labor to get inside these plants , ” said Dennis Smith , a commodity broker for Archer Financial Services in Chicago .
However , Smith said , he was unsure how the order would be enforced in the short term .
The largest U.S. meatpacking union said the Trump administration should immediately compel meat companies to provide protective equipment to slaughterhouse workers and ensure daily coronavirus testing .
The plant closings have slowed the U.S. hog slaughter significantly .
The U.S. Department of Agriculture reported Tuesday ’s hog kill at 283,000 head , down from 354,000 head a week ago and 471,000 a year ago .
“ This production drop is now entering its fifth week ...
I think there is going to be a real ( meat ) shortage like Americans have never experienced before , that will last four weeks or so , ” Smith said .
Others attributed Tuesday ’s pullback in CME hog futures to a technical retracement after a two - week run - up , and worries about excessive hog supplies .
“ There still is the fear that we are backing hogs out in the country , ” said Don Roose , president of Iowa - based U.S. Commodities .
CME live cattle futures firmed on rising wholesale beef prices as the beef sector faces supply struggles similar to those in the hog industry .
The pace of the U.S. cattle slaughter is declining , limiting beef supplies as the summer grilling season approaches , Roose said .
CME June live cattle settled up 0.650 cent at 84.700 cents per pound .
August feeder cattle futures rose 0.650 cent to finish at 127.925 cents per pound .
( Reporting by Julie Ingwersen ;
editing by Grant McCool )

Greece plans gradual relaxation of lockdown measures .
2020-04-28 17:23:22 +00:00 .
ATHENS ( Reuters ) - Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said on Tuesday restrictions on citizens ’ movements would be lifted and more shops allowed to reopen from May 4 in a gradual easing of a lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the new coronavirus .
Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis announces the country 's plan of emergency from a nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in the Maximos Mansion in Athens , Greece , April 28 , 2020 .
Greek Prime Minister 's Office / Dimitris Papamitsos / Handout via REUTERS Greece has so far registered 2,566 coronavirus cases including 138 deaths , much fewer than many other European nations , thanks partly to the swift imposition of its lockdown on March 23 .
But the lockdown has paralysed an economy that only emerged in the summer of 2018 from a decade - long debt crisis , dashing expectations for strong growth this year .
The government now expects a deep recession of up to 10 % of national output .
“ This is not the epilogue of our adventure but the continuation .
Our emergence from quarantine will be done step by step .
No one can rule out the risk of the threat rekindling , ” Mitsotakis said in a televised address .
“ A return ( to normal life ) must not lead to a relapse . ”
Although most restrictions on Greeks ’ free movement will be lifted on May 4 , they will not be allowed to leave their wider region of residence , the conservative premier said .
Some retail stores , including book shops and hair salons , will reopen on May 4 and others later in the month .
Schools will open gradually , starting on May 11 .
Greece relies heavily on tourism but has seen large - scale booking cancellations because of the coronavirus pandemic .
Its borders remain closed to citizens of non - EU nations including the United States and Britain as well as of Spain and Italy as part of the lockdown measures .
The government made no mention on Tuesday of when those restrictions would be lifted .
Greece says it is critical that the European Union adopt a common position soon on travel and reopening borders within the bloc .
[ L3N2C900W ] Year - round hotels , restaurants , cafes and shopping malls will reopen on June 1 , but distance rules will apply and staff will have to wear masks .
The government said it would provide more details later on how it plans to revive the tourism sector , which employs one in five workers in Greece .
Last year tourism revenues totalled 18 billion euros on the back of more than 34 million visitors .
Additional reporting by Angeliki Koutantou and Lefteris Papadimas ;
Editing by Gareth Jones

France plots gradual exit from lockdown from May 11, but cafes to stay closed .
2020-04-28 15:50:27 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) - France will begin to ease its coronavirus lockdown from May 11 to avoid an economic meltdown , Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said on Tuesday , but he warned that infections would spiral higher again if the country moved too swiftly .
French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe delivers a speech to present the government 's plan to unwind the country 's coronavirus lockdown at the National Assembly in Paris , France April 28 , 2020 .
David Niviere / Pool via REUTERS Schools will gradually reopen and businesses will be free to resume operations , Philippe said in an address to parliament .
However , restaurants and cafes will remain closed until at least early June and professional sports , including soccer , will not begin again until the autumn .
“ We must protect the French people without paralysing France to the point that it collapses , ” Philippe said .
“ A little too much carefreeness and the epidemic takes off again .
Too much prudence and the whole country buckles . ”
More than 23,000 people have died in the pandemic in France , the world ’s fourth highest toll behind the United States , Italy and Spain .
But the lockdown had saved tens of thousands of lives , the prime minister said .
The numbers in hospital in France with COVID-19 , the highly contagious lung disease caused by the new coronavirus , have fallen daily for two weeks , while the number of sufferers in intensive care has declined for 19 consecutive days .
The easing would be underpinned by an aggressive testing and isolation programme , Philippe said .
The government was prepared to slow or delay the unwinding if the infection rate rose markedly higher , he said , with administrative departments divided into ‘ red ’ and ‘ green ’ zones .
The government will take advantage of the slowing spread of the virus to rescue a free - falling economy , though Philippe said the French people would have to adapt to a new way of living .
“ We are going to have to learn to live with the virus , ” he said .
“ We must learn to live with COVID-19 and to protect ourselves from it . ”
TEST , ISOLATE
France ’s blueprint for easing the lockdown reflects a balancing act , with the government keen to relieve the mounting frustration of people holed up in their homes since mid - March without heightening the risk of a second wave of infections .
France will implement a new doctrine on COVID-19 testing from May 11 with the aim of testing everyone who has come into contact with infected people , Philippe said .
It targetted a testing capacity of 700,000 per week .
“ Once a person has tested positive , we will begin to identify and test all those , symptomatic or not , who have had close contact with them .
All these contact cases will be tested and will be asked to isolate themselves , ” Philippe said .
He said primary schools nationwide can reopen from May 11 , and high schools from May 18 in areas were the infection rate is weak .
Lessons would only resume if there were no more than 15 students in the classroom at any one time and secondary school pupils will have to wear masks .
Companies should consider remote - working for at least a week after May 11 and anyone travelling on public transport or in a taxi would also have to wear a mask .
The ban on professional sports upends the 2019 - 2020 Ligue 1 season and impacts the already - delayed Tour de France , which had been postponed until August .
A vote will be held on the government ’s proposed measures after a two - and - a - half hour debate , with just 75 of the National Assembly ’s 577 parliamentarians sitting in the chamber to respect social distancing rules .
Reporting by Richard Lough , Matthieu Protard , Leigh Thomas and Michel Rose , Editing by Angus MacSwan

Austrian picture-postcard village, once swamped, awaits tourists' return .
2020-04-28 14:35:58 +00:00 .
HALLSTATT , Austria ( Reuters ) -
A tiny Austrian lakeside village so picturesque it had to limit throngs of tourists is now longing for visitors to return to its empty lanes .
A general view of Hallstaettersee lake during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak and the city of Hallstatt , Austria April 22 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 22 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Leonhard Foeger Hallstatt , population 780 , estimates it had a million day - trip visitors last year , before the coronavirus pandemic halted international tourism .
Other European hotspots once suffocated by selfie - snapping visitors face a similar fate .
Most tourists came on bus tours stopping for a view that gained renown in Asia thanks to a South Korean TV series filmed there and a partial replica here of it built in China .
Nestled in the Salzkammergut region of lakes and mountains east of Salzburg , Hallstatt often attracted attention for efforts to restrict the number of buses stopping there and to monetize those short visits , such as by charging 1 euro to use the toilet .
Now it wonders when it will face that challenge again .
“ Recently it was too much , and it was perceived as too much and as a curse , and we kept taking measures , ” Hallstatt ’s Mayor Alexander Scheutz said .
Austria acted early in its coronavirus outbreak to shut restaurants , bars , non - essential shops , museums and other gathering places six weeks ago .
That helped flatten the curve of infections , which are increasing at less than 1 % daily .
The government said that justified a step - by - step loosening of the lockdown , starting with DIY and garden centres as well as smaller shops , which were allowed to reopen two weeks ago .
Restaurants , cafes and bars are due to reopen on May 15 , followed by hotels on May 29 .
But the borders remain essentially closed in a country heavily reliant on tourism .
“ We in Hallstatt of course depend 95 % on foreign guests ... from Asia , from America , from England and from the surrounding European countries , ” said Markus - Paul Derbl , who owns a restaurant , souvenir shop and other businesses .
“ If the borders stay closed it will be very , very difficult to keep business going properly . ”
Chancellor Sebastian Kurz has said he hopes the border with Germany - Austria ’s biggest source of foreign tourists - will reopen soon , but Germany has been cool on the idea .
It is unlikely Germans alone could fill the gap for Hallstatt , which had 145,000 overnight stays last year .
“ That is rather hopeless perhaps
but I do think we have a name and are known , and of course we are glad when guests from Germany come here , ” Mayor Scheutz said .
" If I had to give a prediction ( for the summer ) it would be a very sad , bad one
but I am an optimistic person - the landscape is beautiful , we are a ( UNESCO ) World Heritage site whc.unesco.org/en/list/806 , the people are welcoming . "
Writing by Francois Murphy ;
Editing by Alexandra Hudson

UK on track to become one of Europe's worst hit in COVID-19 pandemic .
2020-04-28 11:27:37 +00:00 .
People protest against the lack of personal protective equipment ( PPE ) outside of St Thomas ' Hospital , following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , London , Britain , April 28 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Hannah McKay LONDON ( Reuters ) -
Britain is on track to become one of Europe ’s worst - hit countries in the coronavirus pandemic , according to data on Tuesday that showed deaths from COVID-19 had already topped 20,000 by April 17 , including a fast - rising toll in care homes .
The Office for National Statistics said the death toll involving COVID-19 in England and Wales was 52 % higher than the daily figures for deaths in hospitals released by the government as of April 17 , according to official data that include deaths in the community .
The Office for National Statistics ( ONS ) said 21,284 people overall had died as of April 17 with mentions of COVID-19 , the respiratory disease caused by the novel coronavirus , on their death certificates .
That was some 52 % higher than the 13,917 people who died in hospitals , as published by the government on April 18 .
That takes the United Kingdom ’s total death toll as of April 17 beyond those reported by France - which also includes deaths in care homes - and Spain , according to Reuters calculations , though lower than Italy ’s total toll .
A trebling of deaths in care homes in England and Wales within the space of a few weeks contributed to a far higher toll .
The ONS said that overall 7,316 people had died in care homes overall during the 16th week of 2020 , almost treble the number reported in the 13th week .
According to figures released by the health ministry on Monday , 21,092 people had died in hospitals across the United Kingdom after testing positive for COVID-19 .
( Corrects percentage in 2nd and 4th par )
Reporting by Andy Bruce ; editing by Guy Faulconbridge and
Michael Holden

Ramadan bazaars go digital in Southeast Asia amid pandemic .
2020-04-28 02:09:19 +00:00 .
KUALA LUMPUR ( Reuters ) -
For 15 years , Siti Zabedah Abdul Wahab ’s family food business has opened for one month a year , selling murtabak , a pan - fried bread stuffed with meat , at Malaysia ’s popular Ramadan bazaars .
An online Ramadan bazaar trader wraps " Popiah " spring rolls at his home , during the movement control order due to the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Sungai Buloh , Malaysia April 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lim Huey Teng
But this year , Murtabak Mami Murtabak Sultan started taking orders on Whatsapp and Facebook weeks before the Muslim fasting month began on April 23 , as authorities across Southeast Asia called off Ramadan bazaars amid the coronavirus pandemic .
“ This is the first time we are selling online , so we wanted to start early to make sure our customers can find us , ” 38 - year - old Siti Zabedah told Reuters .
Ramadan is traditionally a lucrative time for food vendors in Muslim - majority countries , with more people going out for late - night meals after breaking their fast at sunset .
But the global virus outbreak , with more than 2.6 million people infected , has led to widespread curbs .
Malaysian authorities have imposed a partial lockdown until mid - May and called off Ramadan bazaars .
They are usually attended by packed crowds and feature hundreds of stalls selling food for iftar , or the fast - breaking meal .
The movement curbs have forced thousands of street hawkers and vendors to embrace digital platforms , mirroring a shift in neighbouring Indonesia , where roadside businesses enjoy a sizeable online presence .
“ In Indonesia , you can order pretty much anything you want on an app , ” said Rosli Sulaiman , president of the Malaysian Malay Hawkers and Small Traders Association .
“ Here we have to do a bit more educating as most vendors are used to just being on the street .
Going online or dealing with cashless transactions will be something new for them . ”
Malaysian hawkers have been badly hit by the curbs , with estimated losses of about 50 million ringgit ( $ 11.5 million ) for some 100,000 traders .
To soften the impact , several companies have developed e - bazaar platforms to help Ramadan traders partner with delivery companies and reach more customers online .
“ It ’s going to be a steep learning curve
but ... we have no choice , ” Rosli said .
Many small food businesses , however , prefer marketing directly to customers on social media as they do not earn enough profit to share with delivery firms .
Dozens of Ramadan bazaar groups have popped up on Facebook , where sellers can offer cash - on - delivery services to customers closest to them .
Online Ramadan bazaar trader Nur Shaheera Mohd Sabri packs " Popiah " spring rolls , while her family members check online orders at her home , during the movement control order due to the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Sungai Buloh , Malaysia April 11 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Lim Huey Teng Virtual bazaars have also been set up in Singapore , which cancelled Ramadan markets last month .
The pandemic has heavily impacted observance of Ramadan , traditionally a month when Muslims spend most of their time with families and attend nightly mass prayers at mosques .
( $ 1 = 4.3480 ringgit )
Writing by Rozanna Latiff , editing by Ed Osmond

Pemex trading arm mulls options to cancel May-June fuel cargos -sources .
2020-04-27 22:56:09 +00:00 .
MEXICO CITY ( Reuters ) -
The trading arm of Mexican state oil company Pemex is mulling options to slash the number of fuel cargoes the country imports in May and June as demand plummets because of the coronavirus , three sources close to the talks told Reuters .
FILE PHOTO :
The Pemex logo is seen at its headquarters in Mexico City , Mexico April 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Edgard Garrido Pemex last week declared force majeure over fuel supplies from its trading arm PMI Comercio Internacional after a bottleneck of more than 60 vessels built up outside Mexican ports , waiting to discharge .
But PMI still has not declared force majeure - a contract provision that allows a party to temporarily suspend its obligations due to external circumstances - over its own fuel purchases , which are mostly done through supply contracts with U.S. refining companies .
Not all the contracts signed by PMI permit declaring force majeure in the case of declines in demand , so the company is talking to some suppliers about postponing or canceling cargoes originally planned for May and June delivery , the sources said .
Until the issue is settled , more anchored tankers are likely to accumulate in the weeks to come .
That could lead to mounting invoices for demurrage fees , which apply when a cargo is not discharged within the agreed timeframe .
PMI is also in talks with tanker owners to reduce demurrage fees due on vessels that arrived in recent weeks in Mexican ports and are discharging fuel slowly due to the lack of sufficient storage .
“ Cargoes that are waiting will not be returned .
They will be paid and discharged , but at a slower pace , ” said one of the sources , a shipbroker working with fuel imports into Mexico .
“ PMI has so far been paying demurrage fees as well . ”
Mexico typically relies on gasoline and diesel imports , overwhelmingly from U.S. refiners , to cover most of its national demand .
So far this year , the imports - mostly done by Pemex and PMI - constitute slightly more than 70 % of Mexican motorists ’ consumption .
President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has insisted on the need to wean the country off the foreign fuel supplies to bolter energy security and refine more at home .
Pemex and PMI did not immediately reply to requests for comment .
The United States shipped 1.17 million barrels per day ( bpd ) of fuel to Mexico earlier this year , according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration data , before the coronavirus pandemic cratered demand .
Gasoline consumption in Mexico fell 70 % through April 22 compared to the beginning of this year due to coronavirus - related mobility restrictions , while diesel consumption declined 35 % , according to the country ’s fuel retail association
Onexpo .
PMI buys fuel on behalf of Pemex through different types of contracts , but the vast majority of the purchases are made with U.S. providers using long - term supply agreements for delivery at U.S. Gulf ports , which often include options for declaring force majeure .
Pemex then pays to transport the fuel to nearby Mexican ports .
Separate contracts for transporting the fuel are signed by PMI with vessel owners under time - charter agreements or for covering specific spot purchases .
“ PMI is having very hard negotiations with tanker owners right now .
Demurrage fees will be enormous at the end of the lockdown , ” another of the sources said .
Reporting by Marianna Parraga and David Alire Garcia ; Additional reporting by Ana Isabel Martinez and Adriana Barrera ;
Editing by Frank Jack Daniel , Leslie Adler and Sonya Hepinstall

Canada's Ontario province, despite pressure, will not start reopening economy for weeks .
2020-04-27 19:33:14 +00:00 .
TORONTO / OTTAWA ( Reuters ) -
The government of Ontario , Canada ’s most - populous province and industrial powerhouse , said on Monday it would not begin lifting restrictions to fight the coronavirus for weeks to come despite pressure from businesses to restart the economy .
FILE PHOTO :
One of the forty beds is seen in a mobile hospital set up in partnership with the Canadian Red Cross in the Jacques - Lemaire Arena to help care for patients with the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) from long - term centres ( CHSLDs ) , in Montreal , Quebec , Canada April 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Christinne Muschi Premier Doug Ford said he could not provide a timetable for allowing people in non - essential businesses back to work until the numbers of new cases began dropping steadily .
“ I wo n’t set hard dates until we ’re ready , because the virus travels at its own speed , ” he told a briefing .
About 14.6 million people live in Ontario , representing 39 % of the country ’s population .
Together with neighboring Quebec , it accounts for 82 % of the 47,327 positive diagnoses .
Canada ’s death toll grew by less than 10 % for the eighth day in a row , hitting 2,617 , official data showed .
All 10 provinces have declared health emergencies , shutting down firms across the country and throwing millions out of work .
Ford said he had been grilled by business owners about when they could open again .
“ I understand the pain a lot of companies and people are going through and the pressure , ” he said , adding later that “ we are n’t going to be rushed into anything . ”
Ontario plans to reopen in three stages , each of which first requires a consistent two - to - four week decrease in the number of new cases .
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told reporters the provinces were coordinating with Ottawa on how to reopen the economy and stressed the need for extreme caution , given how little that experts know about the coronavirus .
“ I have confidence every province is taking very seriously this responsibility to be careful because nobody wants to have gone through all this for nothing , ” he said .
In Quebec , elementary schools and childcare services outside Montreal - the country ’s second - largest city - will reopen on May 11 .
In the Montreal region , elementary schools will reopen on May 19 .
School attendance remains voluntary for students , Premier Francois Legault told reporters , adding that high schools , colleges and universities would remain closed .
The increase in deaths on Monday was the lowest day - on - day rise seen since the toll jumped by 12 % on April 19 .
“ Although we are getting closer all of the time , we ca n’t let go of the wheel yet , ” Canada ’s chief public health officer , Theresa Tam , told a briefing .
Reporting by Allison Martell and David Ljunggren ; Additional reporting by Allison Lampert in Montreal and Kelsey Johnson in Ottawa ; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and
Peter Cooney

Russia overtakes China with coronavirus cases at 87,000 .
2020-04-27 18:08:41 +00:00 .
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) - Russia overtook China in the number of confirmed coronavirus cases on Monday , when its tally climbed above 87,000 , as pressure rose on the government to consider easing lockdown restrictions for businesses to help shore up the rattled economy .
A medical specialist walks out of a mobile laboratory , which carries out tests to detect the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) near the Moscow International Business Centre , also known as " Moskva - City " , in Moscow , Russia April 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Evgenia Novozhenina Russia , the world ’s largest country by territory , has been on lockdown since President Vladimir Putin announced the closure of most public spaces in late March .
These measures are due to expire on April 30 and Putin has not yet said if he plans to extend them .
Anna Popova , the head of Russia ’s safety watchdog Rospotrebnadzor , told state television on Monday that , in her view , restrictions should be in place until May 12 .
Earlier Prime Minister Mikhail Mishushin asked his government to submit proposals by Thursday to ease some of the restrictions on businesses .
Many firms have warned that they risk going bankrupt if the lockdown continues , and thousands of workers have been laid off .
Mishustin told an online government meeting that as soon as the situation started to improve “ we would need to consider a step - by - step cancellation of restrictions on certain companies ... operations ” .
On Monday , the authorities reported 6,198 new cases of the new coronavirus , bringing the total to 87,147 , with 794 deaths .
Moscow plans to open two new hospitals , with 1,500 beds each , in the defence ministry ’s Patriot museum and in the Crocus exhibition centre , once a spot for lavish concerts , business daily RBC reported on Monday .
St Petersburg , the country ’s second largest city , is also turning Lenexpo , which used to host Russia ’s top economic forum , into a temporary hospital with 1,000 beds .
ENERGY SECTOR IN FOCUS
Russia , one of the world ’s top oil and gas exporters , is particularly vulnerable to the spread of the coronavirus at production sites .
Most are located in remote areas accessible only by air , meaning the workers must be in close proximity , increasing their risk of infection .
Citing local officials , news agency Interfax said on Monday that an airport in Sabetta , in the northern Yamal peninsula , had been shut down for quarantine after cases of the new coronavirus were detected at the Yamal LNG production site controlled by Novatek .
A total of 143 cases were confirmed in Sabetta , the local crisis response centre said separately .
In the northwestern region of Murmansk where Novatek is building a plant to supply its next LNG project , the Arctic LNG 2 , more than 800 workers tested positive for coronavirus , the local crisis response centre said on Sunday .
Velesstroy , a sub - contractor for the plant , temporarily suspended work at the site near Murmansk , but said in a statement to Reuters that the project would remain on schedule .
To limit the risk of contagion at more than 1,000 power plants in Russia , including nuclear ones , more than 200,000 employees - or nearly a third - were recently tested for the virus , the energy ministry said .
It did not say how many of those tests returned positive .
Mainland China , where the new coronavirus first emerged , reported a total of 82,830 cases on Monday .
China is now fighting an increased number of new cases coming from Russia .
Reporting by Gleb Stolyarov , Maria Tsvetkova , Anton Zverev , Vladimir Soldatkin , Darya Korsunskaya and Anastasia Lyrchikova ; Writing by Katya Golubkova ; Editing by Raissa Kasolowsky and
Alex Richardson

GRAINS-Strong planting weighs on corn market, wheat hits one-month low .
2020-04-27 17:55:24 +00:00 .
* Chicago wheat hits lowest since March 19
* Corn pressured by weaker oil * Soybeans dip despite China demand ( New throughout , updates prices , changes byline , dateline - previously PARIS / SINGAPORE )
By Christopher Walljasper CHICAGO , April 27 ( Reuters ) - Chicago corn futures slid Monday on favorable U.S. planting weather coupled with struggling crude oil prices that continue to pressure demand for corn - based ethanol fuel , analysts said .
Chicago Board of Trade ( CBOT ) wheat futures slipped to a one - month low as expected rain across Europe eased concerns about crop stress while competitive Saudi import tender prices tempered coronavirus supply tension concerns .
Soybeans were choppy , turning lower at times as spillover pressure from corn futures offset support from anticipation of additional Chinese purchases of U.S. soybeans .
Fieldwork was the focus in the U.S. Midwest , where farmers are seeding the 2020 corn and soybean crops .
" We 're just gon na be planting like crazy all week , ” said Mike Rowan , president of Crossroads Cooperative in Sidney , Nebraska .
Analysts expect the U.S. Department of Agriculture to report U.S. corn planting as 22 % complete and soybean planting as 8 % complete in its weekly crop progress report due later Monday .
Meanwhile , worries about demand destruction for corn hung over the market .
Archer Daniels Midland Co on Thursday said ethanol production at two corn dry mill facilities would be idled temporarily because of lower gasoline demand .
China signaled last week that it may buy 20 million tons of corn and 10 million tons of soybeans to fill strategic reserves , though traders remain skeptical .
“ China could be a way to make up for the lost usage in the ethanol sector .
But for now , we ’re still pricing in that loss , ” said Terry Roggensack , partner at the Hightower Report .
Most - active CBOT July corn fell 9 - 1/4 cents to $ 3.13 - 3/4 a bushel by 12:27 p.m. CDT ( 1727 GMT ) .
CBOT July wheat fell 7 - 1/2 cents to $ 5.23 a bushel .
July soybeans fell 1 - 3/4 cents to $ 8.37 - 3/4 .
Weather forecasts pressured the wheat market , with rain expected across Europe and the Black Sea region this week after a prolonged dry spell .
Recent global wheat purchases signal demand , but a strong dollar is making U.S. grains less competitive .
“ Purchases on the world market are certainly not for the U.S. , with how cheap the currencies are , ” said Roggensack .
Traders said prices paid by Saudi Arabia in purchasing 655,000 tonnes of wheat announced Monday pointed to strong competition for the forthcoming season .
Russia confirmed that it would not halt exports at the end of this season until all grain booked under a now - filled quota had been shipped .
CBOT prices as of 12:26 p.m.
CDT ( 1726 GMT ):
Net Pct Volume Last change change CBOT wheat WN0 522.75 -7.750 -1.5 46903
CBOT corn CN0 313.75 -9.250 -2.9 130336 CBOT soybeans SN0 838.00 -1.500 -0.2 86650
CBOT soymeal SMN0 292.10 -0.500 -0.2 50973
CBOT soyoil BON0 25.35 -0.150 -0.6 70824 NOTE :
CBOT July wheat , corn and soybeans shown in cents per bushel , soymeal in dollars per short ton and soyoil in cents per pound .
( Reporting by Christopher Walljasper in Chicago ; Additional reporting by Gus Trompiz in Paris and Naveen Thukral in
Singapore ;
Editing by Lisa Shumaker )

U.S. states from Minnesota to Mississippi to reopen despite health warnings .
2020-04-27 14:24:07 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - U.S. states from Minnesota to Mississippi this week prepared to join other states that have eased coronavirus restrictions to try to revive their battered economies , although some business owners voiced reluctance in the face of health warnings .
FILE PHOTO - Royal Rose sits in her tattoo and beauty studio in Greeley , Colorado , where she plans to return to work next week after a month - long stay - at - home order is lifted , set in place due to the global outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , April 24 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Keith Coffman Colorado , Montana and Tennessee were also set to allow some businesses deemed nonessential to reopen after being shut for weeks even as health experts advocated for more diagnostic testing to ensure safety .
Georgia , Oklahoma , Alaska and South Carolina previously restarted their economies following weeks of mandatory lockdowns that have thrown millions of American workers out of their jobs .
The number of known U.S. infections kept climbing on Monday , topping 970,000 as the number of lives lost to COVID-19 , the highly contagious respiratory illness caused by the virus , surpassed 54,800 .
Public health authorities warn that increasing human interactions and economic activity may spark a new surge of infections just as social - distancing measures appear to be bringing coronavirus outbreaks under control .
New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy said in a Twitter message late on Sunday that he would announce a roadmap for “ responsibly reopening ” the state at a Noon ET ( 1600 GMT ) news conference on Monday .
Although unprecedented stay - at - home orders have put many businesses in jeopardy , many owners have expressed ambivalence about returning to work without more safeguards .
‘ I WOULD STAY HOME ’
“ I would stay home if the government encouraged that , but they ’re not .
They ’re saying , ‘ Hey , the best thing to do is go back to work , even though it might be risky , ’ ” Royal Rose , 39 , owner of a tattoo studio in Greeley , Colorado , told Reuters .
The state ’s Democratic governor , Jared Polis , has given the green light for retail curbside pickup to begin on Monday .
Hair salons , barber shops and tattoo parlors may open on Friday , with retail stores , restaurants and movie theaters to follow .
Business shutdowns have led to a record 26.5 million Americans filing for unemployment benefits since mid - March and the White House has forecast a staggering jump in the nation ’s monthly jobless rate .
President Donald Trump ’s economic adviser Kevin Hassett told reporters on Sunday the jobless rate would likely hit 16 % or more in April , and that “ the next couple of months are going to look terrible . ”
On Monday , White House adviser Peter Navarro said the Trump administration is focusing on protocols to keep U.S. factories open as the country grapples with the coronavirus outbreak , including screening workers for potential cases .
“ You ’re going to have to reconfigure factories , ” Navarro told Fox News .
“ You ’re going to have to use things like thermoscanners to check fever as they come in . ”
Trump was scheduled to hold a video call with the country ’s governors on Monday afternoon before the White House coronavirus task force ’s daily briefing .
The rise in the number of U.S. cases has been attributed in part to increased diagnostic screening .
But health authorities also warn that testing and contact tracing must be vastly expanded before shuttered businesses can safely reopen widely .
( GRAPHIC : Reuters online site for coronavirus - here )
Reporting by Susan Heavey , Nicholas Brown and Brendan O'Brien ; Writing by Maria Caspani ;
Editing by Howard Goller

Czech car industry faces shaky relaunch as Skoda returns to work .
2020-04-27 08:49:10 +00:00 .
PRAGUE ( Reuters ) -
The Czech Republic ’s biggest exporter , Skoda Auto , restarted production on Monday but the auto sector faces a shaky relaunch with the coronavirus outbreak hammering demand for cars .
Workers enter Skoda Auto 's factory as the company restarts production after shutting down last month due to the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Mlada Boleslav , Czech Republic , April 27 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
David W Cerny
The car industry accounts for a tenth of the country ’s economic output , a quarter of exports and 150,000 jobs but looks set to run well below capacity in 2020 .
Skoda , part of the Volkswagen Group ( VOWG_p . DE ) , shuttered its operations in March as the number of coronavirus cases in Europe began to accelerate but is now restarting as the central European country of 10.7 million loosens some restrictions .
On Monday , Czech shops up to 2,500 sqm and places like fitness centres reopened under the government ’s phased plans .
Skoda workers returned wearing masks and were subject to temperature checks , part of 80 new company measures from hand sanitising stations and expanded break areas to extra time for cleaning work stations .
Around 90 % of Czech automotive firms have shut or limited output since March .
Nearly all should resume in the coming weeks , the Automotive Industry Association ( AutoSAP ) said .
A 36 % drop in production last month cost carmakers and suppliers 67 billion crowns ( $ 2.68 billion ) in revenue , AutoSAP said .
Its director , Zdenek Petzl , said almost all April production would be lost before a return to 60 % of capacity in
May.
He estimated sector output would hover at 60 - 90 % of capacity this year .
“ The beginning of the restart will be pretty shaky , ” Petzl said .
“ The biggest fear is ... what markets are going to do . ”
Around 4,000 jobs , mostly agency workers , have been lost so far while 42 % of firms are considering layoffs , AutoSAP said .
Koyo Bearings Czech Republic , part of Japan ’s JTEKT Corporation , relaunched this month after a two - week outage .
Production has run at 10 - 90 % each week since , with 60 % of normal capacity planned for this week , company president Petr Novak said .
With plans made on a week - to - week basis , the company leaves some of its 500 staff at home under a new state short - term work scheme , similar to the Kurzarbeit system in Germany , and is keen to avoid layoffs .
“ The expectation is that the restart and return to normal will be very gradual and we will not realise full ( production ) volumes until maybe 2021 , ” Novak said .
A bellwether for an economy set to sink 5.6 % according to finance ministry forecasts , Skoda operates the largest of the central European country ’s three car plants , which produced 1.43 million vehicles in 2019 .
Skoda will also limit production , the unions ’ weekly newsletter said .
Hyundai Motor Co ’s ( 005380.KS ) factory started running two of three shifts on April 14 .
TPCA , a joint venture of Toyota Motor Co ( 7203.T ) and Peugeot ( PEUP.PA ) , is launching on May 4 .
For an interactive graphic on new coronavirus cases in the Czech Republic : tmsnrt.rs/2S2oJ8A
For an interactive graphic on GDP developments in Central Europe : reut.rs/3exsJHO Reporting by Jason Hovet ;
Editing by Kirsten Donovan

French coronavirus deaths reach 22,856 as govt eyes how to ease lockdown .
2020-04-26 17:54:08 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) -
The death toll in France from the coronavirus has risen by 242 to 22,856 , the health ministry said on Sunday , as the government prepares to see how it might ease a national lockdown that has been in place since mid - March .
A person walks on Trocadero square as a lockdown is imposed to slow the rate of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Paris , France , April 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Gonzalo Fuentes While the number of deaths from the virus has risen , the rate at which the casualties have mounted has steadily fallen over the last two weeks , emboldening those who want France to start to lift the lockdown measures .
The numbers of people leaving intensive care units ( ICUs ) has also outpaced the numbers of those entering those units .
The lockdown ordered by President Emmanuel Macron to slow the spread of the virus has been in place since March 17 and is due to be lifted on May 11 .
Macron is aiming to ease some of the lockdown measures on May 11 by initially re - opening schools , although the government has yet to finalise how this might work in practice .
France has also offered retailers some relief by saying it wants them to reopen on May 11 , although some curbs could remain in certain areas to delay any new wave of the virus .
Prime Minister Edouard Philippe is due to present the government ’s plan to unwind the lockdown to parliament on April 28 , and parliament will then vote on the measures .
Philippe wrote on his Twitter account on Sunday that the government plan would centre on six key areas - public health , schools , businesses , public transport and public gatherings .
The scientific council advising the government on the pandemic wrote over the weekend that school children aged 11 - 18 should wear masks to help thwart the virus .
Politicians are also debating whether or not to proceed with a software and mobile phone application aimed at being able to trace the coronavirus , with some expressing concerns over the potential for data abuse and privacy violations .
Reporting by Sudip Kar - Gupta ;
Editing by Hugh Lawson

Italy to reopen some businesses as early as this week .
2020-04-26 11:10:59 +00:00 .
MILAN ( Reuters ) - Italy , the first European country to be hard - hit by the coronavirus , will allow some businesses to reopen as soon as this week while aiming to reopen manufacturing and construction from May 4 , Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said .
Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte and the Speaker of the lower house of parliament Roberto Fico wear face masks during a session on the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Rome , Italy April 21 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Remo Casilli Conte gave the most detailed outline yet of plans to reopen the economy , in a newspaper interview published on Sunday ahead of the government ’s roadmap out of lockdown , which he said would be released no later than early this week .
Italy , hit hard by the virus weeks before other major Western countries , has been forced to serve as a model for how to fight it .
It is being closely watched around the world as it takes its early steps to chart a path out of a strict lockdown it imposed in early March .
Conte described a phased process that would see much of manufacturing restarted in early May , although businesses frequented by the general public such as bars and restaurants would have to wait a bit longer .
Schools would remain shut until September .
“ We are working in these hours to allow the reopening of a good part of businesses from manufacturing to construction for May 4 , ” Conte told Italian daily La Repubblica .
Some businesses deemed “ strategic ” , including activity that was mainly export - oriented , could reopen this week providing they get the go ahead from local prefects .
Exporting companies need to resume activity sooner to reduce the risk of being cut out of the production chain and losing business , he said .
“ We ca n’t prolong any further this lockdown ... we would risk seriously undermining the socio - economic fabric of the country , ” Conte said .
Conte reiterated that any restart would have to be gradual , and said companies would have to introduce strict health safety measures before opening their doors .
Newspapers have said industries where the contagion risk is low , such as manufacturing and wholesale businesses , would be allowed to open on May 4 .
Retailers could then reopen on May 11 and bars and restaurants on May 18 , under tough conditions .
The lockdown has put a strain on the euro zone ’s third largest economy and Italian business leaders have called for the restrictions to be eased to head off economic catastrophe .
Rome has introduced a series of measures including state - backed loans to help businesses stay afloat .
But some businessmen have complained about delays in implementing them .
Conte said the government was monitoring banks to make sure state - guaranteed liquidity arrived to companies in need .
He also said the government was working on a series of measures to help industry by cutting bureaucratic red tape .
Asked about schools , Conte said the plan was to reopen them in September .
But he added studies showed the risk of contagion was very high .
Teaching remotely is working well , he said .
Reporting by Stephen Jewkes ;
Editing by Peter Graff

China pressured EU to drop COVID disinformation criticism: sources .
2020-04-25 01:56:00 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON / BRUSSELS / LONDON ( Reuters ) - China sought to block a European Union report alleging that Beijing was spreading disinformation about the coronavirus outbreak , according to four sources and diplomatic correspondence reviewed by Reuters .
FILE PHOTO :
A man wearing a face mask buys food at a street stall , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , in Beijing , China , April 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Thomas Peter / File Photo
The report was eventually released , albeit just before the start of the weekend Europe time and with some criticism of the Chinese government rearranged or removed , a sign of the balancing act Brussels is trying to pull off as the coronavirus outbreak scrambles international relations .
The Chinese Mission to the EU was not immediately available for comment and China ’s Foreign Ministry did not immediately respond to faxed questions about the exchange .
An EU spokeswoman said “ we never comment on content or alleged content of internal diplomatic contacts and communication with our partners from another countries . ”
Another EU official Reuters said that the disinformation report had been published as usual and denied any of it had been watered down .
Four diplomatic sources told Reuters that the report had initially been slated for release on April 21 but was delayed after Chinese officials picked up on a Politico news report hat previewed its findings .
A senior Chinese official contacted European officials in Beijing the same day to tell them that , “ if the report is as described and it is released today it will be very bad for cooperation , ” according to EU diplomatic correspondence reviewed by Reuters .
The correspondence quoted senior Chinese foreign ministry official Yang Xiaoguang as saying that publishing the report would make Beijing “ very angry ” and accused European officials of trying to please “ someone else ” - something the EU diplomats understood to be a reference to Washington .
The four sources said the report had been delayed as a result , and a comparison of the internal version of the report obtained by Reuters and the final version published late Friday showed several differences .
For example , on the first page of the internal report shared with EU governments on April 20 , the EU ’s foreign policy arm said : “ China has continued to run a global disinformation campaign to deflect blame for the outbreak of the pandemic and improve its international image .
Both overt and covert tactics have been observed . ”
The public summary posted Friday to the bloc ’s disinformation portal , euvsdisinfo.eu http://www.euvsdisinfo.eu , attributed the disinformation to “ state - backed sources from various governments , including Russia and – to a lesser extent – China . ”
The public summary did note “ significant evidence of covert Chinese operations on social media , ” but the reference was left to the final six paragraphs of the document .
Disinformation about the coronavirus outbreak is emerging as a flashpoint between the United States and China , and officials on both sides have traded allegations of hiding information about the pandemic .
The disputes have sometimes caught Europeans in the middle .
With more than a billion euros a day in bilateral trade , the EU is China ’s top trading partner , while China is second only to the United States as a market for EU goods and services .
In a webcast Friday with the Friends of Europe think tank , China ’s ambassador to the EU Zhang Ming said , “ Disinformation is an enemy for all of us and it should be addressed by all of us . ”
Reporting by Raphael Satter in Washington , Robin Emmott in Brussels and Jack Stubbs in London ; Editing by Daniel
Wallis

In already poor Honduras, coronavirus pushes some into homelessness .
2020-04-25 00:42:31 +00:00 .
TEGUCIGALPA ( Reuters ) - Poor Hondurans who were barely eking out a living selling basics on the capital ’s gritty streets prior to the coronavirus outbreak are now sleeping on those same streets as they can no longer afford their rent .
Street vendor Marisol Maradiaga , who is living on the street after being unable to continue paying for her rent , plays with her daughter amid the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Tegucigalpa , Honduras , April 23 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Jorge Cabrera Perla Maradiaga , a 35 - year - old mother of two , had been selling water from a street stand , but now begs for donations after her sales collapsed since the government last month ordered offices and schools closed in an effort to contain the pandemic .
“ This way you can get some food so your stomach is n’t empty , ” she said , sitting on the ground with her 2 - year - old daughter in her arms .
“ But sometimes we ca n’t get nearly enough to buy milk or diapers . ”
Maradiaga is one of what locals say are at least three dozen informal economy workers in Tegucigalpa who can no longer afford the apartments they had previously been renting , and are now forced to spend the night on the streets , with no means of protecting themselves from infection .
She is especially worried that her kids will suddenly fall ill and will not be able to access proper care .
“ If they get sick , are we going to just wait until they die ? ”
Reuters spoke to several homeless people who said they had previously lived in tenements in the historic center of Tegucigalpa or in neighborhoods on the city outskirts .
Since March 25 , the government has been delivering care packages of basic foodstuffs door - to - door , which include items like beans , rice , hand sanitizer , and face masks .
They estimate that some 3.2 million people had received the packages .
But the newly homeless who Reuters spoke said that without their own place , they had received nothing .
Honduras has reported nearly 600 confirmed coronavirus cases to date , as well around 50 deaths .
Roughly 40 % of the population was already living in extreme poverty , with half of those subsisting on $ 1 or less a day , according to data from the national statistics institute .
The ranks of the poor are expected to swell , with the economy forecast to contract by about 3 % this year , according to the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America .
“ We ’re all here because we do n’t have anywhere else to go , ” said Jose Cruz , a 27 - year - old , who now camps out along with his mother .
“ Kids , old people , women sleep here where it ’s dangerous , ” he said .
“ I ’m asking the president to listen because the people on the streets are not animals . ”
Reporting by Marvin Valladares ; Additional reporting by Gustavo Palencia ; Writing by David Alire Garcia ;
Editing by Rosalba O'Brien

DuPont doubles output of protective gowns to 30 mln per month .
2020-04-24 20:06:23 +00:00 .
April 24 ( Reuters ) - Industrial materials maker DuPont is doubling production of protective garments it makes from its Tyvek material to about 30 million a month to help meet increased demand due to the coronavirus outbreak .
The spread of the pandemic across Europe and the United States has led to a worldwide scramble for protective masks , gowns and gloves worn by healthcare and other workers battling to curb the spread of the virus .
Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security estimated this month that a single 100 - day COVID-19 wave would create a need for 321 million more isolation gowns , such as those made by Dupont , in the United States alone .
Before the coronavirus crisis , the global market for personal protective equipment ( PPE ) was valued at about $ 40 billion annually , with Dupont and U.S. peers Honeywell International Inc and 3 M Co among the biggest players .
That will now increase .
“ We ’re producing up to almost two times the number of garments per month to help support the demand that ’s currently in front of us , ” John Richard , vice president of DuPont ’s safety business told Reuters .
DuPont ’s Tyvek , a fabric used in gowns and coveralls for protective use , has been a silver lining for the company as it faces steep declines in demand for its products in the auto sector and other industries hammered by the virus outbreak .
The company pulled its full - year forecast on Monday , but estimated first - quarter profit would top Wall Street estimates on demand for products such as Tyvek and those used in water filtration .
The industrial giant , a top player in the PPE market with other products such as protective gloves , flame - resistant and chemical protective clothing , said everything it was producing was being sold promptly .
The company expects the heightened demand to continue at least until later this year as industries resume operations and bring back workers using additional safety measures .
DuPont , which makes Tyvek in Richmond , Virginia and Luxembourg , has re - purposed its manufacturing operations and simplified some designs to eke out more pieces per square area of the fabric .
Dow , part of the erstwhile DowDupont conglomerate before a split last year , has also started making sanitizers and face shields to meet growing demand .
( Reporting by Taru Jain and Arathy S Nair in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Shounak Dasgupta )

Polish health minister says presidential vote in two years would be safest .
2020-04-24 20:00:13 +00:00 .
WARSAW ( Reuters ) - Poland ’s health minister on Friday urged a delay of the presidential election scheduled for May 10 , saying postponing it by two years would be the safest option because of the coronavirus outbreak .
FILE PHOTO :
People enjoy walking in the Lazienki Royal Park after loosening of the lockdown measures by the government due to the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Warsaw , Poland April 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Kacper
Pempel
Earlier on Friday the government announced an extension of the closure of schools and kindergartens until May 24 , which have been shuttered since mid - March .
Poland was among the first countries in Europe last month to impose strict lockdown measures to contain the outbreak , and has reported relatively few deaths from the COVID-19 respiratory disease that the coronavirus can cause .
It has started to ease restrictions on some activities to try to limit the damage to its economy , the biggest in Central Europe .
But the nationalist Law and Justice ( PiS ) government has so far resisted pressure to postpone the election , arguing it can be held via mail - in ballots instead of polling booths to limit any contagion risks among voters and electoral officials .
It was not immediately clear whether Health Minister Lukasz Szumowski ’s comments , made to the private Polsat broadcaster , meant PiS had shifted its stance .
“ One option is that we shelve this subject for two years and really deal with the fight ( against the pandemic ) .
I think this is the best option and I recommend it , ” Szumowski said .
Critics have accused PiS of putting political gain ahead of public health in its insistence the vote be held on time .
Opinion polls show the incumbent Andrzej Duda , a PiS ally , easily winning the vote if it is held next month .
PiS has also suggested a constitutional change to extend Duda ’s term by two years and to introduce seven - year presidential mandates instead of the current five years would be a solution .
But senior PiS figures have insisted a vote on time was preferred because it would safeguard democratic procedures .
Parks and forests reoponed this week , and more people are now allowed in shops at one time .
The government has said it may reopen hotels in May and some media have suggested shopping malls could be also be reopened .
But the government resisted pressure to reopen schools immediately , even though economists from Citibank Handlowy said in April that every month of schools remaining closed cut Poland ’s economic growth by 0.1 - 0.3 % .
Government forecasters expect the economy to contract by between 1 % and 4.5 % this year , Poland ’s first recession since communist rule ended in 1989 .
By Friday , the European Union member state of 38 million had reported 10,892 cases and 494 deaths .
On Friday the number of deaths increased by 40 , the fastest since the start of epidemic in Poland .
Additional reporting by
Pawel Florkiewicz and Alan Charlish , Editing by Justyna Pawlak , Timothy Heritage and Jonathan Oatis

GLOBAL LNG-Asian LNG prices fall below $2 per mmBtu as spot offers flood market .
2020-04-24 16:10:52 +00:00 .
* Price falls below $ 2 / mmBtu *
Around 20 U.S. cargoes cancelled for June loading
* China received first U.S. LNG in 13 months
By Ekaterina Kravtsova LONDON , April 24 ( Reuters ) - Asian spot prices for liquefied natural gas ( LNG ) tumbled this as week as sellers around the world flooded the market with cargo offers , while demand remained subdued amid coronavirus - related lockdowns .
The average LNG price for June delivery into northeast Asia LNG - AS was estimated at around $ 1.95 per million British thermal units ( mmBtu ) on Friday , $ 0.35 per mmBtu lower than the estimate last week .
A wave of supply tenders has hit the market as a number of buyers are rescheduling long - term deliveries , leaving suppliers with excess cargoes , an LNG trader said .
“ There ’s some flexibility in long - term contracts .
If the long - term buyer nominates ( volumes ) down , then the surplus cargoes are offered on the spot market , ” another industry source said .
There were also tenders from usual sellers of spot cargoes , traders said .
In Africa , Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas ( NLNG ) offered two cargoes for loading in May and Angola ’s LNG project offered a cargo for loading in June .
In Asia , Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd , or Petronas , also offered an LNG cargo for delivery in June .
Exxon Mobil Corp ’s Papua New Guinea LNG export plant sold a cargo for May 25 loading at around $ 1.80 per mmBtu , two sources said .
Brunei ’s LNG export plant has sold a June 9 - 10 loading cargo in a tender that closed on April 20 at close to $ 2.00 per mmBtu , one trader said .
Russia ’s Sakhalin 2 plant offered six cargoes for loading between June 2020 and February 2021 .
Australia ’s Ichthys LNG plant was selling two cargoes for May - June loading , an industry source said .
There was also a tender from Russia ’s Novatek that offered a July delivery cargo to Europe , which was awarded this week , two sources said .
In the United States , loading of around 20 cargoes in June was cancelled this week by buyers from Asia and Europe as prices in these regions were too low to ship a cargo from the United States .
Meanwhile , China received this week its first U.S. cargo in 13 months after Beijing started granting tax waivers to LNG importers .
DEMAND
Amid low prices , some buyers started to look for cargoes , but demand was too low to relieve oversupply .
With India easing lockdown measures for some public sectors , several buyers from the country issued tenders , sources said .
Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd was seeking to buy a May 25 delivery cargo , with one source in India saying the tender was not awarded .
Indian companies Indian oil Corp and Reliance Industries were also in the market , the source added .
There was also a buy tender from Taiwan ’s
CPC Corp.
Several buyers in Europe were looking to buy cargoes as well .
( Reporting by Ekaterina Kravtsova ;
Editing by Mark Potter )

Germans told not to lower guard as lockdown is eased .
2020-04-24 15:28:08 +00:00 .
BERLIN , Germany ( Reuters ) - Germany ’s coronavirus infection rate needs to fall further - to a few hundred cases a day - before lockdown measures can be eased further , its main public health institution said on Friday .
Empty chairs are placed at the Roemerberg in front of the town - hall , to call attention to the difficult situation of hotel and restaurant owners , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues in Frankfurt , Germany , April 24 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Ralph Orlowski Chancellor Angela Merkel is worried that Germans are relaxing their social distancing efforts and is resisting pressure from some states to press ahead with a further easing of restrictions after a partial lockdown lift this week .
Germany ’s confirmed coronavirus cases increased by 2,337 to 150,383 , data from the Robert Koch Institute ( RKI ) for infectious diseases showed on Friday - a slight deceleration after three straight days of new infections accelerating .
The reported death toll rose by 227 to 5,321 .
“ We should not lower our guard now , ” the institute ’s vice president , Lars Schaade , said .
Encouraged by lower infection figures , Germany last week allowed smaller stores to re - open from Monday , along with car and bicycle dealers and bookstores , provided they adhere to strict distancing and hygiene rules .
Germany has the fifth - highest COVID-19 caseload behind the United States , Spain , Italy and France , but has kept fatalities down after early and extensive testing .
Virologist Stephan Ludwig from the University of Muenster said Germans must be careful not to grow complacent as the country edges out of lockdown and calls grow for restrictions on public life to be eased further .
“ This is a bit like playing with fire now , ” he told Reuters .
“ Just because one can go into shops again does not mean that one need no longer adhere to all other restrictions and hygiene rules . ”
Retailers with floorspace of up to 800 square metres are now allowed to open .
A gradual easing of restrictions provides for social distancing rules to remain in place until May 3 .
Schools will start opening from May 4 , with priority for final - year students .
Hairdressers can also reopen then .
Merkel urged the country on Thursday to show endurance and discipline to get through a pandemic that is “ still at the beginning ” .
RKI on Friday also widened its recommendation for who should be tested for the virus to include anyone with symptoms of respiratory infections regardless of previous contact with a known COVID-19 case .
“ Now that the government is easing restrictions gradually ...
it is particularly important to be able to identify COVID-19 in people who only have mild symptoms , ” RKI ’s Schaade said .
He added there was now enough testing capacity and that the common cold was no longer distorting the picture as much as during the winter months .
The country is testing about 260,000 swab samples per week but labs have stocked up to be able to carry out 640,000 weekly tests if needed , according to the association of Germany ’s certified labs .
Additional reporting by Elke Ahlswede in Muenster , Ludwig Burger in Frankfurt and Joseph Nasr in Berlin , writing by Paul Carrel , Editing by Angus MacSwan

Britain, EU fail to bridge gaps in future relationship talks .
2020-04-24 15:28:08 +00:00 .
BRUSSELS ( Reuters ) - Britain and the European Union showed little sign of progress towards a deal on their post - Brexit relationship this week , failing to bridge differences over future competition and EU fishing access to British waters .
Michel Barnier , Brexit chief negotiator for Europe on future ties with Britain , gives a news conference after the first week of EU - UK negotiations , in Brussels , Belgium , March 5 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Johanna Geron / Files
The EU ’s chief negotiator Michel Barnier told a news conference on Friday that Britain had set a tight deadline by ruling out an extension to the Brexit transition period beyond the end of 2020 .
“ The United Kingdom can not impose this very short calendar for negotiations and at the same time not move , not progress on certain subjects that are important for the European Union , ” he said .
The transition period could be extended by a year or two , but Britain would have to request this by the end of June .
There are only two further weeks of negotiating rounds scheduled before then - from May 11 and June 1
Britain described the second round of talks as “ full and constructive ” , but said in a statement that the two sides had made limited progress in bridging gaps .
There were “ significant differences of principle ” and the European Union was making demands it had not sought from other trading partners , it said .
Brussels says Britain ’s proximity and already close ties to Europe means it is an exceptional case .
FOUR KEY DIFFERENCES
The European Commission , which is negotiating on behalf of the 27 EU members , sent to London a 350 - page text on March setting out the EU ’s position .
Barnier said Britain had only sent texts back on certain subjects .
“ We need to make progress on all issues in parallel .
We need to find solutions for the most difficult topics .
The UK can not refuse to extend the transition and at the same time slow down discussions on important areas , ” he said .
There were four areas in particular where progress was disappointing , he said .
The European Union has insisted on guarantees of a level playing field , including in areas such as taxation and state aid .
Britain said this was not found in other EU trade deals .
The talks had also highlighted problems surrounding governance of the future partnership .
The EU wants a single framework to oversee all areas , while Britain wants separate agreements with separate arrangements , Barnier said .
Britain was failing to give firm guarantees on fundamental rights and insisted on lowering current standards and deviating from standards on data protection and this created “ serious limitations ” for a future security partnership , Barnier said .
Finally , the EU negotiator said the talks had made no tangible progress on fisheries .
EU 's Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier gives a news conference after Brexit negotiations , in Brussels , Belgium , April 24 , 2020 .
Olivier Matthys / Pool via REUTERS /
Files
“ The EU will not agree to any future economic partnership that does not include a balanced , sustainable and long - term solution on fisheries . ”
London said Brussels needed to accept Britain would control access to its waters at the end of this year and not simply demand the continuation of current quotas .
Britain formally left the bloc on Jan. 31 this year , just before the coronavirus epidemic struck Europe .
Reporting by Philip Blenkinsop and Robin Emmott ; Additional reporting by Guy Faulconbridge and Kylie MacLellan in London ; Editing by Angus MacSWan

Asia Gold-Lockdowns keep retail buyers away in top gold hubs .
2020-04-24 15:22:34 +00:00 .
* Jewellery shops to remain shut during major Indian festival
* Chinese dealers continue to offer massive discounts
* Steady investment demand in Hong Kong , Singapore
By Arpan Varghese and Rajendra Jadhav BENGALURU / MUMBAI , April 24 ( Reuters ) - Retail demand for physical gold suffered this week in top Asian hubs as jewellery shops remained shut due to coronavirus restrictions , but some regions saw steady buying from investors hunting for a safe haven .
Dealers in the world ’s biggest gold consumer China continued to sell bullion at hefty $ 50 an ounce discounts versus benchmark spot prices this week .
This compares with last week ’s $ 50-$70 discounts , the biggest on record according to data going back to 2014 .
“ Some shops have opened , but people are in no mood to buy gold on the retail side , it ’s still a high - end purchase , ” Ronald Leung , chief dealer , Lee Cheong Gold Dealers in Hong Kong .
Global spot prices are now well above $ 1,700 an ounce .
In India , physical trading remained suspended due to the coronavirus , and jewellery showrooms will stay shut ahead of the country ’s biggest gold buying festival of Akshaya Tritiya on April 26 .
“ Usually ahead of Akshaya Tritiya , jewellers make purchases , but this year no one ’s buying , ” said Harshad Ajmera , proprietor of JJ Gold House , a wholesaler in the eastern Indian city of Kolkata .
Many jewellers have announced plans to sell gold online on the festival and deliver it after the lockdown is lifted , “ but retail buyers are not interested in online purchases due to the higher price and uncertainty about delivery ” , said a Mumbai - based dealer with a private bullion importing bank .
Indian gold futures held near a record high of 47,327 rupees ( $ 620.5 ) .
Investment demand was steady in Hong Kong and Singapore but retail buying was poor .
“ Dealers like us are taking pre - orders to be fulfilled on a later date , and clients are settling for higher premiums and for whatever inventories that are available , ” said Joshua Rotbart , managing partner , J. Rotbart Co in Hong Kong .
Premiums of $ 0.40-$2.00 an ounce were charged on average in Hong Kong , versus last week ’s $ 0.50-$1.00 , although some dealers quoted premiums as high as $ 4.00 .
In Singapore , gold was sold at average premiums of about $ 1.50 to $ 5 an ounce for gold bars .
“ No jewellery shops / businesses are open until June 1 , ” said Spencer Campbell , director at Precious Metals Consultants SE Asia Consulting , adding premiums on retail gold were still high with new stock “ based on promises right now ” .
“ Exemptions are not being granted for this industry as they do not see refining and minting as essential businesses . ”
Japan saw premiums of $ 0.50-$1 an ounce amid muted activity with top gold retailer Tanaka Kikinzoku shutting all its stores .
$ 1 = 76.30 Indian rupees Reporting by K. Sathya Narayanan and Asha Sistla in Bengaluru and Rajendra Jadhav in Mumbai ; Editing by Emelia Sithole - Matarise

French court upholds ruling limiting Amazon deliveries during COVID-19 crisis .
2020-04-24 13:52:43 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
The logo of Amazon is seen at the company logistics center in Lauwin - Planque , northern France , April 22 , 2020 after Amazon extended the closure of its French warehouses until April 25 included , following dispute with unions over health protection measures amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak .
REUTERS / Pascal Rossignol PARIS ( Reuters ) -
A French court on Friday rejected U.S. online retailer Amazon ’s ( AMZN.O ) appeal against a ruling that restricts what it can deliver during the coronavirus crisis .
Amazon must limit deliveries in France to IT products , health items , food and pet food , the Court of Appeal in Versailles said , adding that for every delivery not meeting this requirement , Amazon would face a 100,000 - euro ( $ 108,020.00 ) penalty .
Confirming the initial ruling , the court said the restrictions must be put in place while Facebook evaluates and improves its health measures to prevent the 10,000 people it employs at six warehouses to catch the COVID-19 disease .
“ We ’ll evaluate the consequences of this decision for our business , our employees , our customers in France , and the many small and medium - sized companies that rely on Amazon to grow their business , ” the group ’s French subsidiary said in a written statement .
The subsidiary closed its warehouses in the country on April 16 .
It extended their closure twice and said they would be shut until April 25 inclusive .
The world ’s largest online retailer is facing mounting scrutiny as it juggles a surge in online orders during government lockdowns worldwide to curb the pandemic and employees ’ safety , and France has become a major battleground .
The legal battle in France highlighted how companies may struggle to keep going while protecting their workers , just as firms across Europe need to figure out how to let staff safely return to offices and factories once restrictions are lifted .
The spat has also accentuated losses for some French businesses that were still managing to sell and ship through Amazon , in spite of a furore over whether some goods are really essential .
Reporting by Mathieu Rosemain and Sarah White ;
Editing by Geert De Clercq and Emelia Sithole - Matarise

Singapore oil trader Hin Leong seeks court-appointed manager to oversee debts: sources .
2020-04-24 11:53:36 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
A view of Hin Leong 's Pu Tuo San VLCC supertanker in the waters off Jurong Island in Singapore , July 11 , 2019 .
Picture taken July 11 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Edgar Su SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) - Singapore ’s Hin Leong Trading Pte Ltd , one of Asia ’s top oil traders , has applied for a court - appointed supervisor to manage the company and restructure billions of dollars of debt owed to multiple banks , two sources with knowledge of the matter said on Friday .
“ The company is in the process of applying for judicial management , and at the same time actively looking for strategic partners to raise cash , ” said one of the sources with knowledge of the company ’s plans .
Under so - called judicial management , a court appoints an independent manager to run the affairs of a financially distressed company in the place of existing management .
Such moves are often seen favourably by creditors .
Hin Leong did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment .
Calls to the Singapore High Court were not answered .
The company is also expected to withdraw an application it had made to the Singapore High Court for legal protection for six months from creditors , the two sources said .
Hin Leong owes $ 3.85 billion to 23 banks , according to a company presentation to lenders on April 14 contained in an affidavit in court filings .
The affidavit was reviewed by Reuters but has not been made public .
In the affidavit , Hin Leong ’s founder Lim Oon Kuin , also known as O.K. Lim , said he had directed the firm not to disclose $ 800 million in losses over several years .
The financial difficulties have come to light following the collapse in oil prices and slump in demand as the coronavirus pandemic shut down economic activity .
Hin Leong had appointed accounting firm PwC and law firm Rajah Tann as advisers for negotiations with lenders to obtain short - term credit , but talks fell through , two sources had said previously .
A spokeswoman for Rajah
Tan declined comment as the matter is before the court , while PwC did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
Reporting by Chen Aizhu and Anshuman Daga ; editing by Richard Pullin and Neil Fullick

China steel inventories extend fall fuelled by construction demand, nonferrous stocks ease .
2020-04-24 09:29:16 +00:00 .
BEIJING / SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) - Steel stockpiles in China fell for a sixth straight week helped by accelerating demand in construction sector , but were still hovering near a five - year high as mills ramped up production after slowing output during the height of the coronavirus outbreak .
FILE PHOTO :
A worker walks past steel rolls at the Chongqing Iron and Steel plant in Changshou , Chongqing , China August 6 , 2018 .
REUTERS / Damir Sagolj / File Photo Stocks of steel products held by traders fell by 1.15 million tonnes to 20.13 million tonnes as of Thursday , data compiled by Mysteel consultancy showed .
More than 70 % of the fall was accounted for by construction use rebar and wire rod .
The construction sector has picked up rapidly since late March .
Daily trading volume of steel products is even slightly higher compared with this time last year thanks to the government ’s stimulus for infrastructure and resumption of projects .
Northern China resumed construction one month later than the south , which may lead to more demand , according to a Hebei - based trader who requested anonymity .
( GRAPHIC : Daily trading volume of steel products used in construction in China - here )
Zhuo Guiqiu , analyst with Jinrui Futures , expected more demand next week ahead of China ’s Labour Day holidays which fall on May 1 - 5 , while also expecting stocks to remain high if mills keep producing at a fast pace .
China ’s crude steel output rose 1.2 % to 234.34 million tonnes in the first quarter compared with same period year earlier .
The China Iron and Steel Association warned on Wednesday that high inventory could become the norm for this year .
( GRAPHIC : China 's weekly steel inventories vs output - here )
NONFERROUS Copper inventories in warehouses tracked by the Shanghai Futures Exchange ( ShFE ) dropped for the sixth straight week on Friday to 259,037 tonnes , the lowest level since Feb. 7 , as many businesses restarted operations in top consumer China .
“ Demand has been surprisingly firm after the lockdown .
The Chinese are back at work and they mean serious business , the only question is how the order books look like ... especially orders from outside of China , ” said Anna Stablum , a commodity trader at Marex Spectron .
“ We will only know when we see exports data coming out on how demand is slumping outside of China .
And the question is how much domestic demand and incentives can counteract weakening demand in Europe and the United States , ” Stablum added .
Inventories of all other industrial metals also fell , with aluminium inventories hitting their lowest since February 28 at 458,403 tonnes , lead dropping 10.3 % over the week to 7,074 tonnes , the lowest since end - October 2018 .
Zinc stocks fell 9.3 % week - on - week to 133,349 tonnes , nickel inventories eased 1.8 % over the week to 27,461 tonnes , and tin stocks fell 3.3 % during the same period to 3,702 tonnes , their lowest since November 2019 .
( GRAPHIC : China 's weekly metals stocks at warehouses tracked by Shanghai exchange - here )
Reporting by Min Zhang in Beijing and Mai Nguyen in Singapore ;
Editing by Simon Cameron - Moore

Coronavirus cases accelerate in Peru to top 20,000, government extends quarantine .
2020-04-24 07:37:52 +00:00 .
Peruvians who are stranded in Lima , walk as they wait to be tested for the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , as part of a process to allow them to return to their hometowns , in Lima , Peru April 23 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Sebastian Castaneda LIMA ( Reuters ) - Peru ’s reported coronavirus cases rapidly increased this week and topped 20,000 on Thursday , doubling in nine days , as President Martin Vizcarra extended a national quarantine in the world ’s No . 2 copper producer .
The crisis has left millions without jobs and Peru ’s hospitals are straining to deal with a rapid rise in the number of COVID-19 infections , with bodies being kept in hallways , masks being repeatedly reused , and protests breaking out amongst medical workers concerned over their safety .
Vizcarra extended the national quarantine to May 10 from April 26 previously .
The health ministry says it expects patient numbers to peak within days or in the following week .
Even Peru ’s coca farmers , who grow the bushy plant used to make cocaine , have seen prices fall 70 % and plan to ask the government to buy up excess inventory , according to a Reuters report .
Peru recorded its first coronavirus case on March 6 and took 25 days to reach 1,000 cases .
It took only 14 more days to reach 10,000 cases on April 14 , according to a Reuters tally .
Cases doubled again to 20,914 confirmed cases on Thursday .
Peru has a total of 572 deaths .
Peru has the second - highest number of cases in South America after Brazil , despite a tough lockdown aimed at halting the spread of the coronavirus .
On March 15 , Peru announced it would close its borders and called on citizens to self - quarantine for 15 days with just 71 recorded coronavirus cases .
Peru ’s government has announced a massive economic stimulus package worth 90 billion soles ( $ 26.41 billion ) , around 12 % of gross domestic product , to support citizens and the key mining sector .
Reporting by Marco Aquino ; Writing by Cassandra Garrison ; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Andrea Ricci

Philippines extends capital's coronavirus lockdown to May 15 .
2020-04-24 03:20:14 +00:00 .
MANILA ( Reuters ) - Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has extended until May 15 a lockdown in the capital Manila , his spokesman said on Friday , stretching to eight weeks one of the world ’s strictest community quarantines to curb coronavirus infections .
A cat walks past a man wearing a protective face mask who guard a barricade placed on an empty street amid the lockdown to contain the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Metro Manila , Philippines , April 21 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Eloisa
Lopez
The measures will be expanded to other regions with big outbreaks but modified in lower - risk areas , which would see a partial resumption of work , transport and commerce , Harry Roque told reporters .
Television broadcast images on Friday of a crisis panel meeting where Duterte had made the decision late the previous day .
He even offered a reward of 50 million pesos ( $ 986,000 ) to any Filipino who could create a vaccine .
“ We are all at risk , but do not increase the odds or chances of getting it , ” he said , warning against complacency .
Manila , a heavily congested city of at least 13 million people and millions more informal settlers , accounts for more than two - thirds of the country ’s 6,981 infections and 462 deaths .
After China and Italy , but just a few days before Spain , the Philippines became the third country to order tight lockdown and home quarantine , even though it had only a fraction of the infections and deaths of nations that took similar measures .
The Philippines introduced curbs on immigration , travel , commerce , gatherings on March 12 , five days after the first case of domestic transmission , and expanded on March 16 .
It is closed to all except repatriated Filipinos .
The approach aims to keep overstretched health services from from being overwhelmed and create a window to ramp up testing , which started slowly to gain ground in recent weeks .
But with just 72,000 tests , the government last week estimated it had managed to track only a quarter of projected infections .
The health ministry has said it was too early to say if the infection curve had been flattened .
( $ 1=50.7040 Philippine pesos )
( Interactive graphic tracking global spread of coronavirus : open tmsnrt.rs/3aIRuz7 in an external browser . )
Additional reporting by Karen Lema ;
Editing by Clarence Fernandez

UPDATE 1-Azerbaijan imposes oil cuts on BP-led fields - sources .
2020-04-23 19:16:07 +00:00 .
( Updates with total cuts for Azerbaijan )
By Olga Yagova and Dmitry Zhdannikov MOSCOW / LONDON , April 23 ( Reuters ) - Azerbaijan ’s BP - led Azeri - Chirag - Guneshli ( ACG ) project will have to cut output sharply from May for the first time ever as the country moves to meet its commitment under a global deal to cut production , four sources told Reuters on Thursday .
Oil majors operating large production sharing deals in the ex - Soviet states of Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan have been previously excluded from any government - imposed production decisions because such foreign investment is highly - prized .
But the scale of the coronavirus - driven oil crisis has made it impossible for Azerbaijan to cut output without imposing restrictions on BP and its partner shareholders , which include Hungary ’s MOL , U.S. ExxonMobil , Norway ’s Equinor and Japan ’s Inpex .
BP , which as the leading shareholder speaks for ACG , and the Azeri energy ministry both declined to comment .
The development will be closely watched in countries such as OPEC members Nigeria , Angola and Iraq and non - members like Kazakhstan and Russia , where oil majors have long escaped making cuts , citing contract agreements .
Azerbaijan is not a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) but is a part of a wider group known as OPEC+ , which led by Saudi Arabia on the OPEC side and Russia for other producers outside the organisation .
The third largest oil producer among ex - Soviet countries , after Russia and Kazakhstan , needs to cut its oil output by a total of 164,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) to 554,000 bpd for two months from May under the OPEC+ deal sealed this month .
Of this , giant offshore ACG fields in the Caspian Sea will be required to cut some 75,000 - 80,000 bpd from May , sources told Reuters .
This accounts for about 15 % of ACG ’s output , Reuters calculations show .
The ACG consortium reported production of 535,000 bpd on average last year and planned to maintain this level in 2020 .
Older onshore Azeri fields , which have been producing oil since around 1900s , will contribute the remaining cuts .
“ Proportionally , onshore fields will cut much more because they have higher costs , ” one of the four sources said .
The cut in ACG production will result in a drop in oil exports via the Baku - Tbilisi - Ceyhan pipeline through Georgia and Turkey , Azerbaijan ’s main oil export route , the sources said .
( Additional reporting by Margarita Antidze and Nailia Bagirova ;
Writing by Katya Golubkova ;
Editing by Alexander Smith and Alex Richardson )

U.N. agency calls for $1 trillion developing world debt write-off .
2020-04-23 16:52:15 +00:00 .
JOHANNESBURG ( Reuters ) -
Around $ 1 trillion of debt owed by developing countries would be cancelled under a global deal proposed by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development ( UNCTAD ) on Thursday to help them overcome the impact of the coronavirus pandemic .
The world ’s developing economies , which were already struggling with a rapidly growing debt burden , must now confront a record global downturn , plummeting prices for their oil and commodities exports and weakening local currencies .
At the same time , they need to spend more money on healthcare and to protect their economies .
Some 64 low - income countries currently spend more on debt service than their health systems , according to UNCTAD .
“ This is a world where defaults by developing nations on their debt is inevitable , ” Richard Kozul - Wright , director of UNCTAD ’s Division on Globalisation and Development Strategies , said during a video conference with journalists .
In a report calling for a plan to relieve developing countries ’ debt burden , UNCTAD estimated their liquidity and financing requirements due to the pandemic amount to at least $ 2.5 trillion .
High - income developing countries have debt service obligations of between $ 2 to $ 2.3 trillion in 2020 and 2021 alone , while middle and low - income countries have debt service obligations of $ 700 billion to $ 1.1 trillion .
Having poured some $ 8 trillion into stimulus for their own economies , the Group of 20 wealthy nations ( G20 ) last week agreed to suspend the bilateral debt service payments by the world ’s poorest countries until the end of the year .
“ It ’s kicking the can down the road , ” Kozul - Wright said .
“ You extend the problem and you pretend it ’s going to go away in two or three years time if growth picks up in the world economy .
We do n’t think this is credible . ” UNCTAD calculated the G20 ’s debt moratorium would cover $ 20 billion of public debt to official bilateral creditors .
An additional $ 8 billion would be included if all private creditors joined the initiative , and a further $ 12 billion if all multilateral creditors did as well .
‘ GLOBAL DEBT DEAL ’
That has little impact on the developing world ’s overall debt burden , the agency said , and the money would need to be paid back with interest at the end of the suspension .
Instead , it called for a “ Global Debt Deal ” that would grant initial one - year debt standstills on request , which could be extended after a review and would include a stay on all creditor enforcement actions .
Debt relief and restructuring programmes would follow to ensure long - term debt sustainability , a process that would require significant debt cancellation .
Using as a benchmark the case of post - war Germany , which saw about half its debt cancelled , UNCTAD calculated the figure for developing economies would be around $ 1 trillion .
An independent debt authority would oversee the process rather than the International Monetary Fund and World Bank , which are among poor countries ’ leading creditors and therefore not impartial , according to UNCTAD .
Kozul - Wright said it was in the interest of wealthy nations to support a plan allowing developing countries to concentrate their resources on fighting the new coronavirus rather than their external debt .
“ This is not a charity exercise , ” he said .
“ The health pandemic will eventually hit much of the south .
If that happens there will be a blowback in terms of health to countries that thought they had somehow conquered this virus .
That ’s almost inevitable . ”
Reporting by Joe Bavier ;
Editing by Catherine Evans

Exclusive: Argentina plans higher local oil price to protect sector amid rout - sources .
2020-04-23 16:37:04 +00:00 .
BUENOS AIRES ( Reuters ) - Argentina plans to issue a decree setting a higher local oil barrel price to protect the domestic industry from being further decimated by crashing global prices and slumping fuel demand during the coronavirus pandemic , two industry sources told Reuters .
FILE PHOTO :
Oil rigs are seen at Vaca Muerta shale oil and gas drilling , in the Patagonian province of Neuquen , Argentina January 21 , 2019 .
Picture taken January 21 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Agustin Marcarian
The locally set oil price , known as the “ criollo barrel ” and used before to offset global price swings , would come as oil demand has collapsed around the world and domestically in Argentina due to a nationwide lockdown imposed in mid - March .
In Argentina as in other countries during the pandemic , a slower economy has slashed fuel demand .
Refiners are not purchasing all the crude that is being produced , and storage space is growing scarce pressuring prices even more .
One of the people , a senior industry official with knowledge of government plans , said an announcement around the “ criollo ” barrel would likely be released next week , to help “ put a floor under the steep fall ” .
He added the official decree was not yet completed .
Both sources declined to be named because the plans were still private and under discussion .
Argentina is home to the huge Vaca Muerta shale deposit , the size of Belgium .
It is though to hold one of the world ’s largest reserves of unconventional hydrocarbons .
Argentina has typically produced around 500,000 barrels of oil per day , and with a fast ramp - up at Vaca Muerta has reduced reliance on imports .
The country had been targeting an energy surplus in 2020 .
Global oil prices have crashed to two - decade lows .
On Monday , U.S. crude oil futures actually plunged into negative territory .
Low prices are squeezing producers , especially those developing costlier shale reserves .
“ A criollo barrel is vital and to maintain the price at the pump .
Otherwise ( refiners ) buy crude at $ 20 and sell it at a pump at $ 50 , which is what it is today , ” said the second source , an oil industry executive in Argentina .
Argentina ’s production ministry , which oversees the energy secretariat , did not respond to requests for comment .
The South American country fixed oil prices previously until around 2016 to shield local firms from fluctuating prices .
THE ‘ DEAD COW ’
The pandemic has hammered producers in Vaca Muerta - Spanish for “ dead cow ” - which Argentina had hoped would produce major export income to help the country claw its way out of recession as it looks to restructure billions of dollars in debts .
Guillermo Pereyra , secretary general of the Rio Negro , Neuquén and La Pampa Oil and Gas Union around Vaca Muerta , told Reuters most workers have been sent home and production has fallen steeply in April .
His union , which has 25,000 workers , will sign an agreement with oil companies on Thursday to guarantee that the 20,500 workers at home would receive at least 60 % of their wages in April and May , he said .
“ The pandemic led us to paralyze the economy , planes and vehicles stopped working , factories closed and demand fell , ” he said .
“ Refineries began to stock their products .
Pipelines can not pump more because there is nowhere to put oil . ”
“ Vaca Muerta is more dead than ever , ” he said .
Reporting by Eliana Raszewski ; Editing by Adam Jourdan and
David Gregorio

Target sees margin squeeze as it spends more to meet coronavirus-led demand .
2020-04-23 15:02:33 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Target Corp ( TGT.N ) said on Thursday rising costs from trying to meet the fast - changing needs of consumers during the coronavirus crisis were set to hurt its first - quarter profit and margins , even as it recorded robust online sales during March and April .
The big box retailer said digital comparable sales surged more than 275 % in April , with several days in the month recording more online sales than Cyber Monday , traditionally the busiest day for e - commerce companies .
However , shares of the retailer fell nearly 3 % after the company said it expects margins to drop by 5 - percentage points in the first quarter due to temporary wage increases and higher sales of more low - margin products such as groceries .
The company now plans to pay an extra $ 2 an hour for store and distribution center workers until May 30 .
Target also said it had to write down the value of its inventory for apparel and accessories as shoppers confined to their homes refrained from refreshing their wardrobe , leading to a 40 % drop in comparable sales so far in April .
Target , along with Kroger ( KR.N ) and Costco ( COST.O ) , are among the few companies that have seen a net benefit in sales from consumers stockpiling essentials .
Other players in retail , especially apparel chains and department stores , have taken a big hit from the pandemic , with some of them on the verge of filing for bankruptcies .
“ Watching the retail industry decline is not something I enjoy , but I think going forward we ’re going to seesignificant market share opportunities , across our apparel business , ” Target Chief Executive Officer Brian Cornell said on a media call .
“ That ’ll be a benefit to us .
But unfortunately , it will come at the expense of others who are closing their doors and potentially no longer operating in this future environment . ”
Gap ( GPS.N ) said on Thursday that it may not have sufficient funds to operate during the coronavirus crisis .
A surge in online shopping more than made up for a mid - teens decline in comparable store sales for Target in April .
Overall comparable sales , including digitial , rose more than 5 % .
FILE PHOTO :
A Target shopping cart is seen in front of a store logo in Azusa , California U.S. November 16 , 2017 .
REUTERS / Lucy Nicholson
“ Target ’s ability to accommodate and capture such growth is a testament to its early acknowledgement of the need for and continued strengthening of its online fulfillment practices , ” Jefferies analyst Christopher Mandeville said .
Sales of food and beverage items rose over 12 % in April , while those of toys and electronics jumped over 30 % .
Target said quarter - to - date comparable sales have risen over 7 % , with digital sales more than doubling .
Reporting by Uday Sampath and Aishwarya Venugopal ; in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Anil D'Silva

Fears for Uganda's zoo animals as cash dwindles in coronavirus lockdown .
2020-04-23 14:27:35 +00:00 .
ENTEBBE , Uganda ( Reuters ) - Nyakato , an orphaned baby elephant at a conservation centre in Uganda , wants to play .
She flaps her small ears while poking her trunk through the fence towards her keeper .
A lion and a lioness are seen at the Uganda Wildlife Conservation Education Center ( UWEC ) amid the lockdown as part of the measures taken to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , within Wakiso district , in Entebbe , Uganda April 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Abubaker Lubowa
For now , her biggest problem is loneliness .
But soon it may be food - cash at the 68 - year - old centre where she lives is running out after the global travel freeze and lockdowns caused by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus .
“ We are closed to the public , ” the centre ’s executive director , James Musinguzi , told Reuters .
“ No more money is coming in . ”
Zoos and conservation projects around the world are grappling with dwindling funds after tourists disappeared .
Kenyan conservationists are reining in programmes , and in Germany a zoo warned they might have to feed animals to each other if funding dried up .
In Uganda , the publicly - owned Uganda Wildlife Education Centre ( UWEC ) sits on 74 hectares of woods near the town of Entebbe , on a picturesque peninsula on Lake Victoria .
The colonial - era centre runs entirely on cash from visitors .
Last year , it welcomed 385,000 people , but visitor numbers began dropping in January and the centre shut on March 27 .
Three days later , the east African country imposed one of the continent ’s strictest lockdowns to slow the spread of the virus .
The lockdown , initially for 14 days , was extended for an extra three weeks on April 14 .
So far , it seems to be working : Uganda has only recorded 58 infections of COVID-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus .
There have been no reported deaths .
But people - and animals - are suffering .
Musinguzi estimates the centre can only keep going for another two months .
Nyakato alone drinks 12 litres of baby formula a day , drinking greedily when caretaker Onesmus Mutuza , 25 , thrusts a feeding bottle into her mouth and squeezes .
That costs 7.2 million shillings ( $ 1,900 ) per month .
There are other animals to worry about .
The centre is home to 280 animals including birds , primates , reptiles , and large mammals like rhinos .
Even if the lockdown ends soon , global travel and tourism are likely to take time to recover .
So the centre has introduced “ virtual tours ” via Facebook , hoping to attract supporters .
Not everyone is gloomy , though .
Some animals have been enjoying their privacy .
Earlier this year , Kabira , a 23 - year - old female white southern rhino finally mated with Sherino after a frustrating wait of more than two decades .
Now caretaker Steven Busulwa is eagerly awaiting a pregnancy test due in June .
“ In one year and a half maybe we might have some babies , ” he said , hopefully .
Reporting by Elias Biryabarema ;
Editing by Katharine Houreld and Mike Collett - White

Sweden's Volvo hit by cancelled orders as pandemic creates 'new normal' .
2020-04-23 09:04:30 +00:00 .
STOCKHOLM ( Reuters ) - Sweden ’s AB Volvo ( VOLVb . ST ) on Thursday warned of stalling truck orders and a challenging adjustment to a “ new normal ” of feebler demand after reporting a smaller - than - expected fall in quarterly operating earnings helped by service sales .
FILE PHOTO :
The logo of Swedish truck maker Volvo is pictured at the IAA truck show in Hanover , September 22 , 2016 .
REUTERS /
Fabian Bimmer / File Photo
The rival to Germany ’s Daimler ( DAIGn . DE ) and Volkswagen subsidiary Traton ( 8TRA.DE ) said its net order intake had turned negative since the end of March as customers rushed to cancel planned truck purchases due to the coronavirus pandemic .
The Gothenburg - based manufacturer last suffered a demand downturn on a similar scale during the 2008 global financial crisis when cancellations outpaced new orders for a full quarter .
Volvo shares fell 6.65 % by 0850 GMT .
Already facing a cyclical slowdown before the outbreak brought markets and production to a halt in Europe and North America last month , the slump is set to test Volvo which in the past has struggled to handle violent swings in demand .
“ In the coming quarters , it will be challenging to reduce costs with the same speed and magnitude as revenues are decreasing , ” CEO Martin Lundstedt said in a statement , adding he expected demand for services to suffer too .
Adjusted operating profit at the maker of trucks , construction equipment , buses and engines fell to 7.1 billion Swedish crowns ( $ 704 million ) from 12.7 billion but topped the 6 billion expected by analysts , Refinitiv Eikon estimates showed .
Volvo last month shelved plans for an extra shareholder payout though it said on Thursday it still intended to pay its ordinary dividend for 2019 .
One of Sweden ’s biggest private sector employers with a global workforce of 100,000 , the company said it aimed to “ cautiously restart ” manufacturing in Europe , North America and Brazil at low levels at the end of April and beginning of May.
“ Everyone is struggling with what the ramp - up and new normal will look like , ” Lundstedt said in a conference call .
“ Our current estimate is that the gradual return will be slow and activities in the Volvo group need to be adjusted . ”
While factories may be stirring back to life , uncertainty lingers as to how much demand will be there to meet the output .
Order intake of its trucks under brands such as Mack and Renault as well as its own name fell 16 % in the first quarter but Volvo warned the decline had been 75 % in March versus February and net negative since then .
Volvo , which in January saw the market falling by just under 15 % in Europe and by nearly 30 % in North America this year , said it was now not meaningful to try to forecast .
“ It was rather expected that they would n’t give forecasts ... since uncertainty is so big and visibility almost none , ” Handelsbanken Capital Markets analyst Hampus Engellau said .
Reporting by Niklas Pollard ; additional reporting by Helena Soderpalm ; editing by Jason Neely and
Keith Weir

Chinese citizen journalist resurfaces after going missing in Wuhan .
2020-04-23 09:01:07 +00:00 .
BEIJING ( Reuters ) -
A Chinese citizen journalist who posted videos about the coronavirus situation in the city of Wuhan has resurfaced after going missing for almost two months , saying in a YouTube video that he had been forcibly quarantined .
Li Zehua , 25 , was one of three citizen journalists who went missing in Wuhan .
A video he published on Feb. 20 showed temporary porters being hired to transport corpses of people who apparently died of the coronavirus .
It was viewed 850,000 times on YouTube , which is blocked in China .
Days later , he posted live video footage of the police coming to his home .
He was then not heard of until his new video was posted on Wednesday .
The other two citizen journalists , Chen Qiushi and Fang Bin , who according to media reports posted footages of overwhelmed hospitals and corpses piled in a minibus , have not resurfaced publicly .
Chen ’s mother said earlier he was missing while Fang also posted video of the police knocking on his door .
Chinese authorities made no public comment on any of the three .
U.S. congressman Jim Banks called in March 31 on the U.S. State Department to urge China to investigate the disappearance of the three .
Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying dismissed Banks ’ call at the time , saying it was “ totally based on trumped up messages and information ” .
Li , in his new video posted on Wednesday , said police took him from his apartment in Wuhan on Feb. 26 and questioned him at a police station on suspicion of disrupting public order .
He said that after nearly 24 hours , the police station chief told him he would not be charged but must undergo quarantine because he had been to high - risk areas , such as a crematorium .
Li said he was quarantined in a hotel until March 14 , and then escorted to his hometown , where he was quarantined for another 14 days .
He said police had required that he give his electronic devices to a friend while he was in quarantine .
It is not clear why Li chose to post the new video recounting his experience , which he said was made on April 16 , three weeks after his last quarantine ended .
Li did not immediately respond to a request for comment and Wuhan police could not immediately be reached for comment on Thursday .
In the YouTube video recorded in late February , moments before Li opened the door to let police in , the former state television employee spoke about his ambition to speak up on behalf of the people .
He also lamented what he said was a dearth of idealism among young people and used a euphemism to refer to student protests that led to a crackdown in Beijing ’s Tiananmen Square in 1989 , a taboo subject for China ’s ruling Communist Party .
Reporting by Yew Lun Tian ; Editing by Tony Munroe ,
Robert Birsel

U.S. coronavirus deaths top 47,000 after near-record increase on previous day - Reuters tally .
2020-04-23 02:48:21 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
The body bag of a COVID-19 victim , is labeled in the prep room of International Funeral Cremation Services , a funeral home in Harlem , during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Manhattan , New York City , New York , U.S. , April 10 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Andrew Kelly / File Photo ( Reuters ) - U.S. coronavirus deaths topped 47,000 on Wednesday after rising by a near - record single - day number the previous day , according to a Reuters tally .
A University of Washington model here often cited by the White House , projected a total of nearly 66,000 U.S. coronavirus deaths by Aug. 4 , an upward revision from its most recent previous estimate of 60,000 deaths .
At current rates , U.S. deaths could reach 50,000 later this week .
The first U.S. coronavirus death occurred weeks earlier than previously believed , according to California county health officials who saved tissue samples for weeks until they could be tested .
The first U.S. death was on Feb. 6 , instead of Feb. 29 , they reported .
In the weeks since , the U.S. death toll has soared to the highest in the world .
U.S. deaths totaled 47,050 on Wednesday , with the day ’s count about 1,800 and some states have yet to report .
U.S. deaths increased by 2,792 on Tuesday alone , just shy of a peak of 2,806 deaths in a single day on April 15 .
New York state , the epicenter of the U.S. outbreak , reported 474 new deaths on Wednesday , the smallest increase since April 1 .
Some nearby states such as Pennsylvania and New Jersey reported record single - day deaths tolls on Tuesday .
Health officials have said that deaths are a lagging indicator of the outbreak , coming weeks after patients fall sick , and do not mean stay - at - home restrictions are failing to slow the spread of the virus .
The United States has by far the world ’s largest number of confirmed coronavirus cases at over 830,000 .
Cases rose 20,000 so far on Wednesday and were on track to continue the slow but steady decline seen throughout April .
President Donald Trump on Wednesday applauded steps taken by a handful of Republican - led U.S. states , including Georgia , South Carolina and Tennessee , to start reopening their economies despite warnings of a potential fresh surge of coronavirus infections .
Writing by Lisa Shumaker ;
Editing by Howard Goller

Kinder Morgan cuts 2020 core profit outlook, spending on coronavirus hit .
2020-04-22 23:13:23 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - U.S. pipeline operator Kinder Morgan Inc ( KMI.N ) on Wednesday reported a smaller - than - expected quarterly profit and cut its adjusted core earnings forecast for the year , following a coronavirus - induced decline in fuel demand and a crash in crude prices .
FILE PHOTO :
Crude oil storage tanks are seen at the Kinder Morgan terminal in Sherwood Park , near Edmonton , Alberta , Canada November 14 , 2016 .
Picture taken November 14 , 2016 .
REUTERS / Chris Helgren / File Photo
The company now expects an 8 % fall in annual adjusted earnings before interest , taxes , depreciation and amortization from previous estimates of about $ 7.6 billion .
Kinder Morgan also took a non - cash impairment charge of $ 950 million in the first quarter related to certain oil and gas producing assets in its CO2 unit .
The company cut its 2020 capital expenditure by about $ 700 million , or nearly 30 % from its previous estimate .
Oil and gas pipeline and storage companies in the United States and Canada have slashed their budgets for the year as their customers wind down drilling activity in the face of dwindling demand and a price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia that has sent crude to its lowest in decades .
“ Sharp declines in both commodity prices and refined product demand in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic clearly affected our business and will continue to do so in the near term , ” Kinder Morgan President Kim Dang said .
The company said it expects crude oil pricing for the rest of the year to average around $ 30 per barrel , down from its first - quarter realized price of $ 54.61 per barrel .
“ KMI threaded the needle well , in my opinion , ” said Charlie Smith , chief investment officer at Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh , referring to the company ’s decision to lower the quantum of its dividend increase to save cash .
“ That said , my concerns for the future are twofold .
First , their material cuts to growth capex may impair DCF ( distributable cash flow ) in future years .
Second , if WTI prices do n’t recover to north of $ 40 by later in 2020 , their CO2 business may be subject to material further impairment , ” he added .
The Houston - based company , which has pipelines as well as storage terminals , reported a net loss attributable of $ 306 million , or 14 cents per share , in the first quarter ended March 31 , compared with a profit of $ 556 million , or 24 cents per share , a year earlier .
On an adjusted basis , the company reported a profit of 24 cents per share , missing average analysts ’ estimates of 27 cents per share , according to IBES data from Refinitiv .
The company ’s shares were down 1.8 % at $ 14.40 in extended trading .
Reporting by Shanti S Nair in Bengaluru ; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta and
Devika Syamnath

coronavirus deaths top 47,000 after near-record increase on previous day: Reuters tally .
2020-04-22 22:03:14 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - U.S. coronavirus deaths topped 47,000 on Wednesday after rising by a near - record single - day number the previous day , according to a Reuters tally .
FILE PHOTO :
The body bag of a COVID-19 victim , is labeled in the prep room of International Funeral Cremation Services , a funeral home in Harlem , during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Manhattan , New York City , New York , U.S. , April 10 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Andrew Kelly
A University of Washington model here often cited by the White House , projected a total of nearly 66,000 U.S. coronavirus deaths by Aug. 4 , an upward revision from its most recent previous estimate of 60,000 deaths .
At current rates , U.S. deaths could reach 50,000 later this week .
The first U.S. coronavirus death occurred weeks earlier than previously believed , according to California county health officials who saved tissue samples for weeks until they could be tested .
The first U.S. death was on Feb. 6 , instead of Feb. 29 , they reported .
In the weeks since , the U.S. death toll has soared to the highest in the world .
U.S. deaths totaled 47,050 on Wednesday , with the day ’s count about 1,800 and some states have yet to report .
U.S. deaths increased by 2,792 on Tuesday alone , just shy of a peak of 2,806 deaths in a single day on April 15 .
New York state , the epicenter of the U.S. outbreak , reported 474 new deaths on Wednesday , the smallest increase since April 1 .
Some nearby states such as Pennsylvania and New Jersey reported record single - day deaths tolls on Tuesday .
Health officials have said that deaths are a lagging indicator of the outbreak , coming weeks after patients fall sick , and do not mean stay - at - home restrictions are failing to slow the spread of the virus .
The United States has by far the world ’s largest number of confirmed coronavirus cases at over 830,000 .
Cases rose 20,000 so far on Wednesday and were on track to continue the slow but steady decline seen throughout April .
President Donald Trump on Wednesday applauded steps taken by a handful of Republican - led U.S. states , including Georgia , South Carolina and Tennessee , to start reopening their economies despite warnings of a potential fresh surge of coronavirus infections .
( The story refiles to add coronavirus to headline )
Writing by Lisa Shumaker ;
Editing by Howard Goller

UPDATE 3-Argentine bond risk spreads widen as market braces for possible default .
2020-04-22 20:07:59 +00:00 .
( Adds bond market closing levels )
By Walter Bianchi BUENOS AIRES , April 22 ( Reuters ) - Argentine bond prices fell and its country risk spread widened on Wednesday as the market braced for the expected nonpayment of $ 500 million in interest on government bonds , which would kick off a 30 - day grace period before default is declared .
The country ’s segment of JP Morgan ’s Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus shot out 240 basis points to 3,857 over safe - haven U.S. Treasury paper , indicating an increase in payment risk .
Over - the - counter government bonds closed 2.2 % weaker .
With its already weak economy further bloodied by a lockdown against the coronavirus that started on March 20 , Argentina is contending with a mountain of what it has called “ unsustainable ” debt subject to a plan to revamp about $ 65 billion in bonds .
The plan drew initial boos from creditors .
The government and bondholders have until May 8 to negotiate a bond revamp deal .
Both side have staked out tough opening positions .
“ This is the offer , this is what they have to decide on , ” Economy Minister Martin Guzman told local publication El Destape on Tuesday , saying creditors could take it or leave it .
“ The offer is what it is . ”
Wednesday ’s expected missed payment would trigger a 30 - day grace period .
If still outstanding on May 22 , the government would lapse into default , reviving memories of acrimonious battles with creditors after a nonpayment in 2002 that set off the biggest economic crisis in Argentine history .
The Economy Ministry declined to comment on whether it would make Wednesday ’s $ 500 million payment .
But Argentina ’s leaders have suggested that once a formal restructuring proposal was made , it would suspend interest payments on the debt involved .
Those payments amount to around $ 3.5 billion for the rest of the year , government data shows .
“ We understand that , after the official declarations already made , the $ 500 million interest payment on foreign law bonds due today will not be made , ” Buenos Aires - based brokerage Portfolio Personal Inversiones said in a note to clients .
New bonds to be issued as part of the government ’s proposed debt restructuring would contain “ collective action clauses , ” allowing Argentina to alter terms of the debt without the consent of all holders , according to a filing made to U.S. regulators .
“ The payment will probably not be made on Wednesday , but the government still has 30 days to pay without falling into default , said Gabriel Zelpo , director of Buenos Aires economic consultancy Seido .
“ It is still early and the government has room to negotiate , ” Zelpo added .
“ It knows a default would be costly . ”
Reporting by Walter Bianchi and Hugh Bronstein ; editing by Tom Brown and Leslie
Adler

Shell delays decisions on deepwater projects amid oil price rout: source .
2020-04-22 18:54:59 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
A Shell logo is seen reflected in a car 's side mirror at a petrol station in west London , Britain , January 29 , 2015 .
Picture taken January 29 , 2015 .
REUTERS /
Toby Melville LONDON ( Reuters ) - Royal Dutch Shell has postponed decisions on whether to go ahead with two large oil and gas developments in the Gulf of Mexico and North Sea after oil prices collapsed due to the coronavirus crisis , a company source said on Wednesday .
The Anglo - Dutch company slashed its 2020 spending plans by a fifth as measures to halt the spread of the virus led to an unprecedented drop in oil demand and sent oil prices to their lowest in two decades .
As a result of this , the source said Shell had delayed a final investment decision ( FID ) to 2021 on whether to develop its Whale discovery in the southern part of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico .
The source said some work on the project continued .
A decision on Whale was initially planned for later this year , following the discovery in 2017 of what Shell said was one of its biggest finds here in recent years .
Shell , the operator of the Whale project , holds 60 % in the field , while Chevron holds the remaining 40 % .
The project ’s pace has slowed and an investment decision has been put off to next year , a Chevron spokeswoman said .
The U.S. oil major last month cut its 2020 project budget by $ 4 billion and suspended share buybacks to save cash .
Shell also decided this month to defer a decision about the Jackdaw natural gas field in Britain ’s North Sea , the source said .
The development plan originally envisaged linking the field to the existing Shearwater platform by 2024 .
The delays come after private - equity backed Siccar Point , Shell ’s partner in another North Sea project , Cambo , announced on March 20 that the FID on the field was pushed back to 2021 due to coronavirus .
Shell previously said projects it would develop would be built to generate profit with Brent crude at $ 30 a barrel or more .
The benchmark was around $ 20 on Wednesday .
Reporting by Ron Bousso ;
Editing by Edmund Blair and Marguerita Choy

Athletics: From at-home marathons to virtual 5Ks, running seizes lockdown spotlight .
2020-04-22 16:53:30 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
It ’s not that amateur runner Forrester Safford ever planned on running an entire marathon by himself in his four - car driveway - but this month , rather like George Mallory sizing up Everest , he decided to do it simply because the opportunity was there .
FILE PHOTO :
Athletics - Berlin Marathon - Berlin , Germany - September 29 , 2019 General view during the marathon REUTERS /
Hannibal Hanschke / File Photo
“ It was totally on a whim , just to see if I could , ” said the Culpeper , Virginia resident .
With a mix of high- and low - tech approaches , running is quickly emerging as the fitness routine of choice amid the U.S. coronavirus lockdown , which has shuttered gyms and forced the suspension of contact sports .
For Safford , this new normal meant lacing up his sneakers at 2 a.m. and completing the 26.2 miles ( 42.16 km ) in loops and figure-8s outside his house with a cooler of water , energy blocks and Red Bull by his side .
“ I figured I ’d give it a mile and see what happened .
And after a mile , I was like ‘ I can do it , so let ’s just try . ’ ”
The accomplishment , documented in a map that tracked his GPS movements , went viral on Twitter with some 125,000 likes , with many on social media speculating that he had lost his faculties .
“ My sister - in - law was hitting me up , like , ‘ Hey , ... people are saying you ’re nuts and stuff like that . ’
You know , it ’s fine , I ’m not , ” the 38 - year - old said .
With communal sports events on hold for the near future , Safford is one of many going either solo or online .
“ As long as you ’ve got the right shoes , it ’s one of the easiest ways to just get out of your house and go get some exercise , ” said Ajee Wilson , who took bronze in the 800 metres in the 2019 World Championships in Doha in worlds and competed in the Rio Games .
Wilson is part of a group of current or aspiring Olympians leading no - cost digital workouts for children in Manhattan through the Armory indoor track ’s CityTrack and Little Feet programs .
The 25 - year - old , who was gearing up for the U.S. Olympic Trials before the postponement of the Tokyo Games , told Reuters she jumped at the opportunity to lead one of the online classes .
“ It ’s super important to try to be active and try to have things to take your mind of the fact that we ’re all kind of in the same boat , quarantined inside , ” she said .
Other athletes participating include Olympic sprinter Natasha Hastings and shot putter Joe Kovacs , who won silver in Rio and gold in Doha .
With its in - person races on hold through June 30 , New York Road Runners has launched a ‘ virtual ’ 5 K race running through April 30 that allows athletes to compete against one another on their own time and on the course of their choosing .
It has generated a friendly online rivalry between 2018 Boston Marathon champ Des Linden and top woman distance runner Stephanie Bruce , who are both competing .
Forrester Safford poses for a photo after running a full marathon in his driveway in Culpeper , Virgina , U.S. April 1 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 1 , 2020 .
Lisajean Safford / Handout via REUTERS “ ( Now ) it ’s more important than ever to keep in touch with family , friends , and fellow runners , ” said NYRR President and CEO Michael Capiraso .
For marathon man Safford , virtual events and off - the - cuff runs are affirmations of what can be accomplished in trying times .
“ We have to get this over with , ” said Safford .
“ I can run a marathon in my driveway , I figure people can find other stuff to do too at their house . ”

Glencore's Congo unit Katanga Mining to go private, warns of possible COVID-19 impact .
2020-04-22 15:40:42 +00:00 .
JOHANNESBURG / LONDON ( Reuters ) -
Glencore is taking its Toronto - listed Congo business Katanga Mining private , the subsidiary said on Wednesday , citing limited trading liquidity and the costs of a stock exchange listing as reasons for the move .
Katanga Mining , which produces copper and cobalt from mines in the southern copper belt of Democratic Republic of Congo , was first listed in August 1997 and Glencore owns 99.46 % of its shares .
Its de - listing comes as depressed copper and cobalt prices due to the COVID-19 pandemic put added pressure on miners also struggling with disruption to logistics chains linking remote mines to end - users of the metals in Asia .
Katanga shareholders other than Glencore , including Blackrock and nine other minority holders , will receive 0.16 Canadian dollars in cash per share - a 100 % premium to the closing price on Tuesday , and a special committee of Katanga ’s board recommended they approve the deal , the statement said .
Shares in Katanga surged 113.3 % to hit the offer price by 1518 GMT after the agreement between Glencore and Katanga was announced .
The stock listed at 0.265 Canadian dollars in August 1997 and peaked at 28 Canadian dollars in July 2007 .
Among the reasons for going private , Katanga cited the “ attractive ” premium being given to shareholders , commodity price risks , operational risks , financial risks , and the lack of sources of financing without support from Glencore .
Katanga separately said its copper cathode production increased to 67,298 tonnes in the first quarter of 2020 , from 65,402 tonnes in the last quarter of 2019 .
Production of cobalt decreased to 5,296 tonnes in Q1 of 2020 , from 6,173 tonnes in Q4 of 2019 .
COVID-19 IMPACT
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic , Katanga said it was reducing spending on some operations and projects not vital to the day - to - day running of the business .
It also lowered its cobalt production target for the year to 26,000 tonnes from 29,000 tonnes previously .
Katanga said there were no “ material ” disruptions to operations in the first quarter , but prepared the market for the possibility that restrictive measures implemented by Congo and other governments would impact operations going forward .
“ The Company will likely be materially and adversely impacted if its operations are disrupted for any extended period of time , or if it is unable to either import required supplies or export finished product , ” the miner said .
“ Further , the lack of extensive health infrastructure in the DRC may materially and adversely impact the Company . ”
Congo ’s mining minister last week warned mine shutdowns would trigger a “ catastrophic ” economic and social crisis in the country .
Katanga last month said the commissioning of a new acid plant at its 75%-owned subsidiary Kamoto Copper Company ( KCC ) had been delayed as travel restrictions due to the pandemic made it impossible to bring commissioning experts to the site .
Katanga said it expects operating cash flow minus capital expenditure to be “ modestly positive for the year ” if there are no further negative developments or impacts from COVID-19 .
KCC had undrawn liquidity of $ 208 million available under its bank facility and cash on hand of $ 174 million at the end of the first quarter , Katanga added .
Reporting by Helen Reid and Zandi Shabalala , Editing by Jane Merriman and
Elaine Hardcastle

Austria plans to reopen bars and restaurants in easing of coronavirus lockdown .
2020-04-21 16:58:34 +00:00 .
VIENNA ( Reuters ) - Austria will allow bars , restaurants and churches to reopen on May 15 in a further loosening of its coronavirus lockdown provided infections do not surge again , Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said on Tuesday .
The country acted early in its outbreak to close restaurants , bars , theatres , non - essential shops and other gathering places more than a month ago .
It has told the public to stay at home and work from there if possible .
It has also been among the first to loosen its lockdown , allowing DIY stores , garden centres and shops of less than 400 square metres - roughly twice the area of a singles tennis court - to reopen a week ago .
Shopping centres , larger shops , hairdressers and other service providers will follow from May 1 .
“ The ( new infection ) numbers are developing very well , the numbers are going down , we are one of the best countries internationally and we are on the right track , ” Kurz told a news conference .
Austria has reported 491 deaths so far , fewer than some larger countries have suffered daily .
Its confirmed infections are increasing by less than 2 % daily .
“ We are going faster here than other countries towards something like a new normality , ” Kurz said .
Restaurants , cafes and bars will be allowed to reopen from May 15 and stay open until 11 p.m.
Religious services can resume from the same day , a Friday .
Shops must limit the number of customers they let in , and shoppers must cover their mouth and nose with a mask or fabric .
Kurz said wearing a face mask would be part of the “ new normality ” .
It is already required on public transport .
City centres have stayed quiet , but trade has been brisk at DIY and garden centres as a self - confining public seeks to occupy itself .
Secondary schools are due to reopen for school leavers in early May.
Kurz said that for other years schools would reopen in an unspecified step - by - step process beginning on May 15 .
The main phases in Austria ’s loosening of its lockdown are spaced about two weeks apart , which the government has said is so it can assess whether each step has accelerated infections and hospitalisations .
Should they surge , the government has said it could slow or even undo steps in its plan .
“ We must observe the numbers because we do not yet know what effect Easter had , because we do not yet know what came of the opening of smaller shops , ” Kurz said , explaining why a decision on whether to extend the general lockdown beyond April 30 will be announced next week .
Reporting by Francois Murphy ;
Editing by Angus MacSwan

Swiss business relief scheme during coronavirus attracts international interest .
2020-04-21 16:47:44 +00:00 .
* Switzerland unveiled loan programme on March 25
* Over 100,000 companies have received loans under programme
* The loans are worth more than 16 billion Swiss francs
By Brenna Hughes Neghaiwi and Oliver Hirt ZURICH , April 21 ( Reuters ) - A “ unique ” Swiss loan programme for companies hit by the coronavirus outbreak is attracting interest from countries including Germany and Britain , the head of Credit Suisse ’s Swiss business said .
The programme , which emerged from close collaboration between Switzerland ’s banks and the government , has won international plaudits for its speedy delivery .
As requests for liquidity from small and medium - sized companies began rising after the coronavirus spread , Credit Suisse began discussions with the government , and other lenders including UBS , Zuercher Kantonalbank , Raiffeisen and Banque Cantonale Vaudoise soon joined in , said Andre Helfenstein , who heads Credit Suisse ’s Swiss business .
In the first three weeks after it was unveiled on March 25 , more than 100,000 companies received loans and over 16 billion Swiss francs ( $ 16.53 billion ) was paid out under the programme , according to the Swiss Bankers Association .
“ The Swiss approach is unique , from my perspective , ” Helfenstein told Reuters by phone .
“ We ’ve seen interest from England .
Our colleagues in Germany belong to a committee of banks , regulators and the central bank .
We saw interest there too . ”
These approaches had been referred to the government , and loan requests from mid - sized Swiss companies were on the rise , he said .
Multiple foreign finance ministries have inquired about the system and how it is run , a spokesman for Switzerland ’s state secretariat for international financial matters said .
In many countries , small businesses have been left waiting for liquidity because government programmes were slowed by red tape , technical hitches and lengthy needs assessments , including by banks worried they could be hurt by anticipated defaults .
But in Switzerland , banks had within a week paid out nearly three - quarters of the government ’s initially pledged 20 billion francs , according to the Swiss cabinet .
The government doubled the size of the scheme the following week .
“ Other countries have gone the route of providing relief exclusively via the governments , ” Helfenstein said .
“ Switzerland is doing this via the banking system .
That has the advantage that banks already know the clients and already have well - functioning credit processes . ”
While some countries provide state aid without the need for repayment , or ask banks to back some of the credit granted , small businesses in Switzerland can apply for bridging loans at 0 % interest by filling out a 10 - minute government form .
Such small loans should cover more than 90 % of businesses affected by the pandemic , the economy ministry estimated .
Banks are able to pay out cash almost immediately without performing laborious credit checks , often within 30 minutes .
Credit Suisse had issued more than 2 billion francs in loans to its customers by April 15 , the bank said .
( $ 1 = 0.9682 Swiss francs )
( Reporting by Brenna Hughes Neghaiwi , Editing by Timothy Heritage )

Virus turns off the beer taps as Munich cancels Oktoberfest .
2020-04-21 14:01:29 +00:00 .
BERLIN ( Reuters ) - Munich ’s Oktoberfest , the world ’s largest popular festival , where revellers from all over the globe swig beer by the litre and sing along to oompah bands , fell victim on Tuesday to the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
A woman smiles as she carries the pints of beer at the opening day of the 186th Oktoberfest in Munich , Germany September 21 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Andreas Gebert Six million people flock to the Bavarian capital every year for the two - week festivities , held in packed tents with long wooden tables and benches where social distancing to avoid contagion would be both lamentable and impossible .
The event , scheduled this year for Sept. 19 - Oct. 4 , brings in 1 billion euros ( $ 1.1 billion ) for the city .
“ This is not a normal year and it is unfortunately a year without the Oktoberfest , ” said Markus Soeder , premier of the southern German state , announcing a decision that had been widely expected .
“ It hurts .
It is a huge shame . ”
Some parts of Germany have started to relax lockdown measures introduced last month to slow the spread of the virus , but big events are banned until Aug. 31 .
Chancellor Angela Merkel has urged Germans to stay disciplined to avoid a relapse after some slowing of the infection rate .
As of Tuesday , Germany had registered 143,457 cases of coronavirus , of whom 4,598 had died .
Several states are requiring shoppers and people on public transport to wear face masks as additional protection .
Berlin on Tuesday made masks compulsory on public transport from April 27 .
NOT A NORMAL SUMMER
Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said this would not be a normal summer holiday year , either .
Although it was too early to say what would happen to travel , beaches and holiday accommodation would not be packed as usual , he said .
Germany ’s government is trying to mitigate the effects of the shutdown on Europe ’s biggest economy with a range of measures , including a 750 billion stimulus package , and hopes consumer demand will return to help it out of a sharp recession .
Visitors to the Oktoberfest consume more than 7 million litres of beer , 100 oxen , half a million chickens and more than 140,000 pairs of sausages each year .
Munich mayor Dieter Reiter said he was sorry to disappoint the 2 million people who travel from abroad for the festival , and said it was also a blow to Bavarians , who don traditional lederhosen and dirndls - leather shorts and low - cut embroidered dresses - for a highlight of their year .
Munich pastor Rainer Maria Schiessler told the KNA Catholic news agency the festival had been cancelled twice in the 19th century due to cholera epidemics , and also during World War Two .
“ Munich will survive , ” he said .
The festivities go back to 1810 , when the first Oktoberfest was held in honour of Bavarian Crown Prince Ludwig ’s marriage .
These days the festivities tend to turn rowdy in the evenings and many foreign tourists ca n’t stomach the large quantities of specially brewed beer , but it remains as popular as ever .
“ We hope we can make up for this next year , with even more passion and joy , ” Reiter said .
Reporting by Madeline Chambers ;
Editing by Michelle Martin and Kevin Liffey

Virus turns off the beer taps as Munich cancels Oktoberfest .
2020-04-21 13:29:40 +00:00 .
BERLIN ( Reuters ) - Munich ’s Oktoberfest , the world ’s largest popular festival , where revellers from all over the globe swig beer by the litre and sing along to oompah bands , fell victim on Tuesday to the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
People dressed in traditional clothes sit inside a beer tent after the Oktoberfest parade in Munich , Germany , September 22 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Andreas Gebert Six million people flock to the Bavarian capital every year for the two - week festivities , held in packed tents with long wooden tables and benches where social distancing to avoid contagion would be both lamentable and impossible .
The event , scheduled this year for Sept. 19 - Oct. 4 , brings in 1 billion euros ( $ 1.1 billion ) for the city .
“ This is not a normal year and it is unfortunately a year without the Oktoberfest , ” said Markus Soeder , premier of the southern German state , announcing a decision that had been widely expected .
“ It hurts .
It is a huge shame . ”
Some parts of Germany have started to relax lockdown measures introduced last month to slow the spread of the virus , but big events are banned until Aug. 31 .
Chancellor Angela Merkel has urged Germans to stay disciplined to avoid a relapse after some slowing of the infection rate .
As of Tuesday , Germany had registered 143,457 cases of coronavirus , of whom 4,598 had died .
Several states are requiring shoppers and people on public transport to wear face masks as additional protection .
Berlin on Tuesday made masks compulsory on public transport from April 27 .
NOT A NORMAL SUMMER
Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said this would not be a normal summer holiday year , either .
Although it was too early to say what would happen to travel , beaches and holiday accommodation would not be packed as usual , he said .
Germany ’s government is trying to mitigate the effects of the shutdown on Europe ’s biggest economy with a range of measures , including a 750 billion stimulus package , and hopes consumer demand will return to help it out of a sharp recession .
Visitors to the Oktoberfest consume more than 7 million litres of beer , 100 oxen , half a million chickens and more than 140,000 pairs of sausages each year .
Munich mayor Dieter Reiter said he was sorry to disappoint the 2 million people who travel from abroad for the festival , and said it was also a blow to Bavarians , who don traditional lederhosen and dirndls - leather shorts and low - cut embroidered dresses - for a highlight of their year .
Munich pastor Rainer Maria Schiessler told the KNA Catholic news agency the festival had been cancelled twice in the 19th century due to cholera epidemics , and also during World War Two .
“ Munich will survive , ” he said .
The festivities go back to 1810 , when the first Oktoberfest was held in honour of Bavarian Crown Prince Ludwig ’s marriage .
These days the festivities tend to turn rowdy in the evenings and many foreign tourists ca n’t stomach the large quantities of specially brewed beer , but it remains as popular as ever .
“ We hope we can make up for this next year , with even more passion and joy , ” Reiter said .
Reporting by Madeline Chambers ;
Editing by Michelle Martin and Kevin Liffey

Spain says epidemic slowing, but San Fermin bull festival cancelled .
2020-04-21 12:43:24 +00:00 .
MADRID ( Reuters ) - Spain registered another 430 coronavirus deaths on Tuesday and cancelled its famous San Fermin bull - running festival , but officials maintained the pandemic was slowing in one of the world ’s worst - hit nations .
Members of Madrid 's Emergency Service ( SUMMA ) wearing protective equipment transfer a patient suffering from coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) to another hospital amid the coronavirus disease outbreak in Madrid , Spain , April 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Sergio Perez
The latest 24 - hour tallies took fatalities to 21,282 and infections to 204,178 - but they represented just a 2 % increase , fuelling optimism the crisis may be waning at last .
Monday ’s 399 deaths was the lowest number since March 22 .
Health emergencies coordinator Fernando Simon said death data was still worrying but an overall downward trend was clear .
Despite last week ’s easing of restrictions to allow some workers to return , Spain still remains under the strictest lockdown in Europe , which has caused economic paralysis .
Authorities in the northern city of Pamplona regretfully called off the annual San Fermin bull - running festival , which draws thousands of tourists and was made famous in Ernest Hemingway ’s novel “ The Sun Also Rises ” .
It was the first time the week - long party had been suspended in its entirety since 1978 during Spain ’s turbulent transition to democracy after the dictatorship of Francisco Franco .
“ As expected as it was , it still leaves us deeply sad , ” said acting mayor Ana Elizalde .
In the latest gloomy economic forecast , Spain ’s BBVA bank ’s research unit said it expected the economy to contract 8 % in 2020 before recovering 5.7 % next year , under the assumption that Spain ’s lockdown will end in late May.
“ Counter - measures ” to alleviate the economic crisis will be needed for years , it said .
On a positive note , Equality Minister Irene Montero rejoined other ministers in a video - link cabinet meeting on Tuesday after testing negative for the virus 40 days since she was first diagnosed .
Her participation in March 8 Women ’s Day rallies , alongside other government members who later contracted the disease , had caused widespread criticism in Spain .
Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez has said he will seek parliamentary approval to extend the lockdown by two weeks to May 9 , but will continue easing some restrictions .
The government is considering allowing limited outings for children and for people to practice non - contact sports like jogging or cycling , but children would be unable to play freely with their neighbours again for some time .
There had been growing calls for children to be allowed out , including from Colombian pop singer Shakira who lives in Barcelona with footballer Gerard Pique and their two children .
Reporting by Emma Pinedo , Belen Carreno , Inti Landauro , Jesus Aguado ; Writing by Andrei Khalip ;
Editing Andrew Cawthorne

Japan waiting for Golden Week to decide on extending coronavirus emergency - sources .
2020-04-21 12:19:41 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Japan will decide during its Golden Week holiday between April 29 and May 6 whether to extend its month - long state of emergency to fight a widening coronavirus outbreak , government and ruling party sources told Reuters on Tuesday .
Medical workers transfer a patient with mild symptoms of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) into to a hotel following the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Hashima , Gifu prefecture , Japan in this photo distributed by Kyodo April 21 , 2020 .
Mandatory credit Kyodo / via REUTERS Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced the state of emergency , which gives governors in hard - hit prefectures more clout to ask residents to stay home and businesses to close , on April 7 for seven prefectures including Tokyo and Osaka , western Japan .
There are , however , no penalties for refusing those requests .
Abe , who has faced criticism for his response to the outbreak , expanded the emergency nationwide on April 16 to reduce travel during the Golden Week holidays , when many Japanese usually visit their hometowns or take other trips .
Tokyo , which has emerged as Japan ’s coronavirus epicentre , confirmed 123 new cases on Tuesday , bringing its total to 3,307 , public broadcaster NHK said .
Japan as a whole has more than 11,000 confirmed cases and 265 deaths , NHK reported .
The World Health Organization said on Tuesday it was concerned about Japan ’s rising number of cases , although the country was not yet seeing a large - scale community outbreak .
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a news conference that the government would consult experts before May 6 for their views , a prerequisite to extending the emergency .
The number of confirmed cases , how long it is taking to double that number and the percentage of cases for which the route of infection can not be traced , which has been rising , would all be taken into consideration , said Shigeru Omi , head of the expert advisory panel .
The government wants to wait until after passage of an extra budget to decide whether to extend the emergency , since an extension would spark calls for even more spending to cushion the impact of the outbreak and business shutdowns , the sources said .
Debate on the budget is expected to begin on April 27 .
“ The budget will probably pass on April 30 or May 1 , ” a ruling party source said .
“ If possible , it ’s better to decide on an extension at the same time . ”
Japan on Monday boosted its stimulus package to a record $ 1.1 trillion to expand cash payouts to residents , and compiled a record 25.7 trillion yen extra budget for the fiscal year from April 1 to help fund the package .
Writing by Linda Sieg ;
Editing by Simon Cameron - Moore

India's virus lockdown gives world's most polluted capital clear skies, clean air .
2020-04-21 10:52:06 +00:00 .
NEW DELHI ( Reuters ) - Residents of New Delhi are experiencing the longest spell of clean air on record , according to government data , as a stringent lockdown to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus drastically cuts pollution in the world ’s most polluted capital .
FILE PHOTO :
Buildings are pictured after air pollution level started to drop during a 21 - day nationwide lockdown to slow the spreading of Coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in New Delhi , India , April 8 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Adnan Abidi / File Photo
With all transport and construction suspended , good air has emerged as one of the few positive byproducts of the lockdown to stem the virus , that has infected more than 17,000 people and claimed over 500 lives in India .
A combination of industrial , agricultural and vehicle pollution blankets New Delhi and dozens of other Indian cities with a thick grey smog for several months of the year .
Delhi was the world ’s most polluted capital for the second year running in 2019 , according to IQ AirVisual , a Swiss group that gathers air quality data globally .
But during the first 25 days of the lockdown that began on March 22 , the concentration of poisonous PM2.5 particles in a cubic metre of air averaged at 44.18 , according to a Reuters analysis of government data , indicating a rare “ good ” rating , the safest level on the scale .
That is sharply down from an average concentration of 81.88 , recorded between March 22 and April 15 of 2019 , according to the analysis of data gathered by the state - run Central Pollution Control Board .
IQ AirVisual said New Delhi ’s average annual concentration of PM2.5 in a cubic metre of air was 98.6 in 2019 .
“ Clean air has come as a boon , ” said Rakesh Singh , a computer engineer who lives in Noida , a satellite city of New Delhi .
“ Breathing good air will only boost my immunity against the coronavirus . ”
The reading is the best on record for the city since the government began collecting detailed data .
New Delhi had few pollution monitors before 2016 , making like - for - like comparisons before then difficult .
Vehicular exhaust and dust from construction work significantly contributes to air pollution in New Delhi .
India ’s sprawling capital city has nearly 10 million vehicles , more than the other three major cities - Mumbai , Chennai and Kolkata - put together .
Shutting down India ’s $ 2.9 trillion economy has also significantly cut India ’s fuel and power demand , helping pollution levels plummet .
As power demand plunged , 11 of the 12 coal - fired plants situated within a 300 km ( 185 - mile ) radius of New Delhi have closed their operations , said Sunil Dahiya , an analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air ( CREA ) .
Consumption of diesel is down by nearly a quarter year - on - year , he added .
But while the 20 million inhabitants of New Delhi will be breathing good air ahead of Earth Day on Wednesday , the respite from the pollution could be short - lived .
Experts warn that air quality will drop sharply once the government lifts the lockdown , that is scheduled to run until at least May 3 .
“ After the lockdown , we ’ll see new stimulus packages and revival plans for the economy , and my biggest fear is that the environment will be the first casualty , ” said Vimlendu Jha , an environmental expert who founded the activist group Swechha .
Reporting by Neha Arora and Mayank Bhardwaj , editing by Alasdair Pal and Raju Gopalakrishnan

Hear our prayers: coronavirus cuts off France's Mont Saint-Michel .
2020-04-21 09:14:52 +00:00 .
MONT SAINT - MICHEL , France ( Reuters ) -
The sound of prayer flowed around the centuries - old abbey atop the Mont Saint - Michel , a tidal islet amidst vast sandbanks off France ’s northwest coast , drifting down towards its deserted alleyways and past empty restaurants .
FILE PHOTO :
An aerial view shows the deserted Mont Saint - Michel in the French western region of Normandy , as a lockdown is imposed to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in France , April 17 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Pascal Rossignol
In normal times , the mount draws more than 2 million visitors a year .
Now it lies empty except for 30 local residents whose restaurants , souvenir shops and cafes depend on the influx of tourists .
For Yan Galton , the commune ’s outgoing mayor , the coronavirus lockdown has returned the Mont Saint - Michel to a charming bygone era — but with painful consequences .
“ It takes me back years , reminds me of how it was when I was a kid , ” Galton said .
“ Armed with my wooden sword , I used to pretend I was an Ivanhoe and would have the run of the fortress .
“ Mont Saint - Michel is resting now .
But from an economic point of view , it is a little sad . ”
The abbey was founded in 966 , built on a sanctuary dedicated to the Archangel Michel , but it was in the 13th century that work began on the Gothic centre - piece of its architecture , with towering walls and soaring pinnacles .
Tourists began swarming to the abbey and the village that arose in the shadows of its walls in the 1980s after it was designated a World Heritage Site .
Now with France under virtual lockdown , however , the Mont Saint - Michel is closed to the public and tourism is almost the only source of income .
At the foot of the mount , a shovel barred the doorway of the 132 - year - old La Mere Poulard restaurant , through which the likes of Pablo Picasso , Glenn Close and Coco Chanel have passed to dine on its woodfire - cooked puff omelettes .
Eric Bellon , who heads the La Mere Poulard business , said the group ’s 250 employees were temporarily unemployed on a government furlough scheme .
“ Their jobs ground to a halt over the course of a weekend , ” Bellon said , referring to the Saturday and Sunday before a March 17 virtual lockdown was imposed .
Souvenir shop owner Marc Yrieux also worries for his 20 staff and his business .
He counts April as the month his summer season begins .
There will be no easing of the restrictions on public life until at least May 11 and even then it is unclear when France will re - open its borders , permit festivals and allow the tourism sector to reboot .
“ It ’s not like I ’m going to make up for lost revenues in November , ” Yrieux said .
For centuries the Mont Saint - Michel has been a sacred destination for pilgrims .
While the pandemic has not altered a routine of work and prayer for the abbey ’s five monks and six nuns , a profound sense of misfortune pervades , said Brother Philippe .
“ In all the crises we have known , never have people been prevented people from praying among us , ” he said .
Reporting by Elizabeth Pineau ; Writing by Richard Lough ,
editing by Ed Osmond

Colombia extends coronavirus lockdown until May 11, but some sectors to reopen .
2020-04-21 02:42:29 +00:00 .
BOGOTA ( Reuters ) - Colombia will extend its coronavirus quarantine until May 11 , President Ivan Duque said on Monday , but will allow construction and manufacturing to reopen .
A demonstrator wearing a face mask beats a pan during a protest demanding government food aid for the poor , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Bogota , Colombia April 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Luisa Gonzalez
Nearly 200 people have died of COVID-19 in the Andean country , which has almost 4,000 confirmed cases of the respiratory disease .
It is the second time Colombia ’s quarantine has been extended .
The lockdown began late last month and had been set to end April 27 .
“ We have taken the decision to extend this obligatory preventative quarantine initially until May 11 but also giving space for other sectors to participate with protocols and responsibility , ” Duque said in a television broadcast .
“ The construction sector - with very specific protocols - can start its work and the industrial manufacturing sector , which is important not just to attend to many things related to COVID-19 but also to attend to the needs of citizens , can also operate , ” he said .
The government may allow other sectors to eventually return to work , Duque said , but will take measures if coronavirus cases increase or the health system becomes overwhelmed .
The lockdown has taken a sharp toll on Colombia ’s economy , which is now set to contract by up to 2 % this year , according to government predictions .
The central bank has taken repeated liquidity measures , while business leaders have said that despite billions in social aid and credit guarantees , mass layoffs and bankruptcies could be on the horizon .
International and national flights will remain suspended until the end of May , Duque said , as will inter - municipal transport .
Public transport will operate at a maximum of 35 % capacity and companies should allow as many people as possible to work from home , he said .
No large events will be allowed , bars and clubs will remain shut and restaurants must only provide delivery , Duque said .
Universities , schools and daycares will also remain shut .
People over 70 are required to stay home until the end of May. Sectors that will be allowed to reopen will receive details about safety regulations this week , Duque added .
In an effort to support the physical and mental health of Colombians , individual exercise will now be allowed , Duque said , while social programs meant to help poor Colombians will continue .
Residents in some neighborhoods in Bogota have repeatedly blocked roads in protest of lack of aid for their families , while others have begun to place red cloth in their windows as a symbol they are experiencing hunger .
Reporting by Julia Symmes Cobb and Nelosn Bocanegra ;
Editing by Sandra Maler and Peter Cooney

Czech markets, dog salons back in business as cautious reopening begins .
2020-04-20 13:25:59 +00:00 .
PRAGUE ( Reuters ) - Farmers markets , craft shops , car dealerships and dog grooming salons opened in the Czech Republic on Monday , another step towards a return to normal life as the government grows more confident the coronavirus pandemic is under control .
A vendor prepares products before a local farmer 's market reopening , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues in Prague , Czech Republic , April 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
David W Cerny
Although strict hygiene rules are still in force such as requiring farmers to display produce two metres apart , the decision offered a glimmer of hope to small businesses hit hard by the lockdown .
“ This is relief from the stress that we will have to throw away the harvest , ” said Milan Vystejn , a vegetable grower from the Melnik region north of Prague , at a stand in Prague ’s Tylovo Square .
“ On the other hand , we are afraid of catching Covid as Prague has the most of it , ” he said at his stand with potatoes , celery , parsley , carrots and vegetable plants .
The central European country lifted restrictions after the coronavirus outbreak stabilised in the past week .
Around 5,300 cases have been reported with 188 deaths , fewer than most west European countries .
The Czech government moved quickly to impose some of Europe ’s strictest measures , closing schools and most borders , and shuttering restaurants and shops apart from food stores and pharmacies .
While residents enjoyed being able to shop in more places , business groups eager to recharge the nation ’s economy called the moves cautious in comparison with countries like neighbouring Germany .
The lobby group for retail trade , SOCR , said the government did not make clear what it based its reopening plan on or how future developments would alter it .
“ I would for example understand a limit on the number of people rather than size of the store , ” SOCR chief Tomas Prouza told Reuters .
Small shops of up to 200 square metres are to open next Monday followed by those up to 1,000 square metres and fitness centres on May 11 .
Restaurant and beer gardens , hair salons and museums get back to business on May 25 with all other shops , including malls , pubs and hotels , due to open their doors on June 8 .
Dog groomer Martin Kuruc , co - owner of the Darling salon , said after using the downtime for refurbishment he was happy to have a line of clients waiting for a trim .
“ This now means a lot of work , ” he said .
“ It all got backed up so we will be running morning to evening , Saturdays , Sundays , holidays . ”
For an interactive graphic , click here
Additional reporting and writing by Jan Lopatka ,
Editing by Michael Kahn and Ed Osmond

Daily Briefing: Edgy markets brace for earnings as oil tumbles .
2020-04-20 09:52:06 +00:00 .
A collapse in oil prices to levels last seen more than two decades ago has markets on edge on Monday , serving as a potent reminder that there is still a lot of pain to come from the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic and raising questions over just how sustainable recent stock market gains might be .
A 3d printed oil pump jack is seen in front of displayed stock graph and " Oil Stocks " words in this illustration picture , April 14 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Dado Ruvic / Illustration And U.S. crude futures tumbling more than 20 % in early Monday trade was n’t the only dark cloud .
Japanese data showed exports slumped by 11.7 % in March , falling at their fastest pace since July 2016 , as shipments to destinations from the United States to China all suffered sharp declines .
Safe - haven bids are sought this morning with yields on U.S. Treasuries easing while the dollar resumed its gains after Friday ’s dip .
Stock markets around the world paint a mixed picture .
MSCI ’s broadest equity index slipped into the red after two days of gains .
Japan ’s Nikkei index weakened 1.2 % and many Asian markets suffered losses , though China ’s central bank cutting its benchmark lending rate to reduce borrowing costs for companies lifted blue - chip indexes in the world ’s second - largest economy .
Markets in Europe marked a slightly more optimistic start to the week .
The benchmark in Frankfurt gained 0.4 % and London 's FTSE was not far behind , although Paris suffered losses as investors braced for an earnings season that will shed some light on the scope of the hit experienced by Europe Inc. in March as most of the continent went into lockdown .
An employee arranges products at a furniture shop after its re - opening in Pulheim , Germany , April 20 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Wolfgang Rattay Philips reported a 33 % year - on - year drop in first - quarter core earnings while EssilorLuxottica , the spectacles company , said it would scrap its dividend and look to cut costs .
French car parts company Faurecia reported a 13.5 % drop in first - quarter sales .
In a sign that businesses are seeking to get back to " new normal " , IKEA aims to start reopening shops in Europe in May , its chief executive said .
Meanwhile U.S. futures point to falls on Wall Street .
In fixed - income markets , U.S. Treasuries were in favour while European bonds saw Italy underperform as unease set in ahead of a key euro zone meeting on Thursday to address the coronavirus crisis and ways to help hard - hit countries such as Italy and Spain .
Bond markets were also bracing for hefty supply this week , estimated in the region of 14 billion to 17 billion euros .
Watching euro zone inflation expectations after latest slide in oil prices .
In currencies , the dollar gained as global growth fears hit oil prices and weighed on commodity currencies , with positioning data revealing few surprises as investors ramped up their net short dollar positions last week .
Across emerging markets , equities were under pressure despite the gains in China following the benchmark lending rate cut .
Developing currencies also felt the pain .
—
A look at the day ahead from emerging markets chief correspondent Karin Strohecker .
The views expressed are her own —

Japan exports slump as coronavirus hits , Chinese demand .
2020-04-20 02:49:57 +00:00 .
TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Japan ’s exports slumped the most in nearly four years in March as U.S.-bound shipments , including cars , fell at the fastest rate since 2011 , highlighting the damage the coronavirus pandemic has inflicted on global trade .
FILE PHOTO :
Containers are pictured at an industrial port in Tokyo , Japan , May 22 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Kim Kyung - Hoon Monday ’s bleak data underscored the challenges Prime Minister Shinzo Abe ’s government faces in dealing with a collapse in activity that is expected to send the global economy into its deepest slump since the Great Depression of the 1930s .
After a jump in virus cases , Abe expanded a state of emergency last week to include the entire country , which gave authorities more power to push people to stay home and businesses to close .
Japan has reported more than 10,000 infections and over 200 deaths .
Adding to worries the world ’s third - largest economy is sliding into recession , Ministry of Finance data showed Japanese exports fell 11.7 % in the year to March , compared with a 10.1 % decrease expected by economists in a Reuters poll .
That followed a 1 % fall in February and marked the biggest decline since July 2016 , as shipments to Japan ’s major export destinations from China , the United States to Europe were all battered .
“ The impact is likely to continue in April and onwards , which will prevent economic activity from normalizing , ” said Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute .
“ That will keep trade volume constricted globally . ”
Imports fell 5.0 % in the year to March , versus the median estimate for a 9.8 % decline , after the prior month ’s 13.9 % drop , bringing the trade balance to a surplus of 4.9 billion yen ( $ 45.47 million ) .
By region , exports to China , Japan ’s largest trading partner , fell 8.7 % in the year to March , reflecting a slump in items such as car parts , organic compounds and chip - making machinery .
China ’s economy shrank for the first time on record in the first quarter as the virus hit production and spending hard .
But while China is restarting its economic engines after bringing the outbreak under control , demand has plunged in many other countries after they imposed lockdowns to contain the pandemic .
U.S.-bound shipments , another key market for Japanese goods such as cars and electronics , fell 16.5 % year - on - year in March , the biggest decline since April 2011 , weighed by drops in demand for cars , airplane motors and construction and mining machinery .
Shipments to Asia , which account for more than half of Japanese exports , declined 9.4 % , and exports to the European Union fell 11.1 % , due to the globally spreading new virus .
The global economy is expected to shrink 3.0 % in 2020 in a collapse of activity that would mark the steepest downturn since the 1930s , the International Monetary Fund said last week .
The pandemic has now infected more than 2.33 million and killed about 160,000 people globally .
Reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto ;
Editing by Sam Holmes

Wider Image: Life under lockdown in India's massive Dharavi slum .
2020-04-20 02:09:07 +00:00 .
MUMBAI ( Reuters ) -
In homes that are cramped , stuffy and increasingly low on food , residents of Mumbai ’s huge Dharavi slum are struggling under India ’s nationwide lockdown .
Police officers march through a street in Dharavi , one of Asia 's largest slums , after a nationwide lockdown in India to slow the spread of COVID-19 is extended , during the coronavirus disease outbreak , in Mumbai , India , April 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Francis Mascarenhas
In Dharavi , where an estimated one million people live , residents are stretching out meals and relying on donations .
But anxiety has been building since the lockdown began on March 25 .
“ I used to feed my children when I went out for work , but now there is only sorrow and no work , ” said Najma Mohammad , who was employed at a garment shop that has closed .
Her son and two daughters rely on food handouts from neighbours , she added .
Dharavi , believed to be Asia ’s largest slum , is a tough place to be confined , and also one of the most vulnerable to the new coronavirus because of the density of its population and poor sanitation .
Hundreds of people sometimes share the same bathroom .
Access to clean water is not guaranteed .
Soap has become a luxury .
“ Anything can happen .
There are nine people in this room , all of us could be in danger , ” said migrant worker Namchand Mandal , who is from the northeastern state of Jharkhand .
Dharavi has 138 reported cases so far , but experts fear that number will accelerate higher .
“ I am really worried it is just a matter of time , ” virologist Shahid Jameel said of Mumbai ’s slums , which are home to an estimated 65 % of the city ’s core population of around 12 million .
Anxious residents have tied handkerchiefs or shirt sleeves around their faces in lieu of proper masks .
Some have also barricaded alleyways using carts , bicycles and sticks .
Signs warn outsiders to keep away .
Still , many residents say it is impossible to stay confined in small rooms , which are sometimes shared by day labourers who work different shifts .
Deep in the slums , people throng informal markets .
Some adults kill time playing chess or watching videos on their cell phones .
Children play cricket and cards .
One tailor opened his small shop early in the morning , saying he wanted to make a little money before police arrived later in the day to enforce the lockdown .
Officers have punished lockdown violators by making them sit in the sun , do squats or by hitting them with sticks , according to a Reuters witness .
“ It ’s very difficult .
No one listens to us , ” said one police officer in Dharavi , adding that some bank employees shared special passes with friends so they could move around .
Mumbai police did not respond to a request for comment .
Additional reporting by Alexandra Ulmer and Shilpa Jamkhandikar in Mumbai ; Writing by Alexandra Ulmer ;
Editing by Mike Collett - White

With tires and rice bags, Cuba's athletes invent home workouts .
2020-04-18 00:36:54 +00:00 .
HAVANA ( Reuters ) -
A triathlete swims in a tiny above - ground pool on her rooftop , her waist attached to the wall with resistance bands , while a baseball player bats into a car tire and a boxer throws his punches into a bag of rice hanging from a mango tree .
Elite Cuban triathlete Leslie Amat trains on the roof of her home amid concerns about the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Havana , Cuba , April 17 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Alexandre Meneghini
In cash - strapped Cuba , famed for its resourcefulness as well as its sporting prowess , professional athletes are inventing ways to work out and practice despite the closure of common training grounds due to the coronavirus pandemic .
With most on state salaries of less than $ 40 per month , they can not afford professional equipment at home .
Nor would that be easy to acquire in a country subject to a U.S. trade embargo where the state has a monopoly on imports .
“ I ’ve had to invent , ” said triathlete Leslie Amat , 27 , sweating profusely after a full workout on her Havana home ’s rooftop that is lined with potted plants .
In one corner is the 3 - meter long above - ground pool that her trainer ’s 9 - year old daughter lent her when authorities closed down the Olympic - sized pools she usually trains in last month as the virus started to spread in the Caribbean country .
Using bands attached to the wall , she swims in it every day for thirty minutes .
Then she runs on the spot using the same method , before hopping onto her road bike made stationary with a stand that is her one piece of professional equipment .
Amat also created a separate contraption , a wooden board tilted at a 45 degree angle on tubes , to allow her to build up strength in the upper body .
She leans against it and pulls herself up and down with straps .
A video of her improvised workouts , accompanied by the hashtag # quedateencasa ( stay at home ) , went viral on social media this week .
Baseball player Santiago Torres meanwhile has taken to hitting a car tire with a bat to keep up his strength now that he can not use the automated pitching machines at the training facility of his team , Santiago de Cuba .
“ I ’ve been keeping active at home , doing defense exercises with rubber balls , and also swinging the bat , ” he said in a state television report .
For such athletes , suspending training until Cuba ends its lockdown is out of the question .
“ My dream is to get the Tokyo Olympic Games , ” said Amat of the games that were postponed from this July / August to next year due to the pandemic .
To qualify for the Cuban team , she still needs to score well in a few races .
Meanwhile , this Sunday she is one of the star participants in a “ race at home ” created by the organizers of the Varadero half marathon .
Participants are being asked to run one to three kilometers at home , whether around their garden or on the spot , and to post photos and videos on its Facebook page .
“ In these difficult times we need to be very creative , ” said Amat , “ always remember this will pass and continue with our personal goals . ”
Reporting by Nelson Acosta and Sarah Marsh ;
Editing by Daniel
Wallis

New York governor attacks Trump for 'passing buck' on pandemic response .
2020-04-17 18:01:12 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) - New York Governor Andrew Cuomo on Friday launched a blistering attack on President Donald Trump ’s response to the coronavirus crisis , accusing him of “ passing the buck ” to the states and favoring big business over communities hardest hit .
Cuomo , who had previously kept his criticism of Trump in check , unleashed a flurry of broadsides following a reporter ’s question about the president ’s comments suggesting New York had asked for too much aid that was never fully used .
The governor said the president should “ maybe get up and go to work ” instead of watching TV and accused him of favoring the airline industry and other business cronies in a recent bailout package that Cuomo said left little for the states .
Cuomo said that he had been quick to praise the president when the state was in dire need of hospital beds and ventilators and that his requests for help with those were motivated by the White House ’s own dire projections for the virus .
“ We built more beds than we needed , ” Cuomo , said pointing to initial federal projections on the impact of the virus which predicted that as many as 2.2 million people could die .
“ Our only mistake was believing your numbers and your projections . ”
Cuomo , whose state is at the epicenter of the U.S. outbreak , accounting for nearly half of the country ’s deaths , said the president had repeatedly refused to help states with ramping up testing because it was “ too complicated . ”
He said he needs federal funding to significantly ramp up testing capacity and to fill a $ 10-$15 billion budget shortfall that is hampering the state ’s ability to fund such efforts on its own .
He criticized the aid packages passed by Congress to date for a lack of funds to hard - hit states like New York .
“ Is there any funding so I can do these things that you want us to do ?
‘ No , ’ ” Cuomo told a daily briefing on the coronavirus .
“ That is passing the buck without passing the bucks . ”
He spoke one day after the Trump administration outlined plans for a phased reopening , starting with the states least affected by the virus .
“ The federal government has passed three bills to address this crisis .
Of those three bills the state governments have gotten precisely zero , zilch , nada in unrestricted aid , ” Cuomo said .
“ Okay , it ’s up to the states , but then do n’t ask the states , do n’t give them this massive undertaking that has never been done before and then not give them any resources to do it . ”
FILE PHOTO :
New York governor Andrew Cuomo speaks in the Manhattan borough of New York City , New York , U.S. , March 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Carlo Allegri / File Photo
On Thursday , Cuomo extended the closure of businesses and schools in his state until at least May 15 , but he has started to plan on a phased reopening that would hinge on keeping hospitalizations and other key metrics on a downward trend .
Cuomo said on Friday that a total of 17,316 people were hospitalized across New York because of COVID-19 , down from 17,735 a day earlier and the lowest since April 5 .
Intubations and admissions to intensive care units also fell , he said .
Cuomo said that about 2,000 infected people were newly admitted to hospitals on Thursday , hovering at a high level , while the state recorded an additional 630 deaths , up from 606 deaths the previous day .
Reporting by Maria Caspani and Jessica Resnick - Ault in New York and Nathan Layne in Wilton , Connecticut ;
Editing by Franklin Paul and Howard Goller

'No one is prepared for this'- Italian doctors fight to keep home patients alive .
2020-04-17 14:25:23 +00:00 .
BERGAMO , Italy ( Reuters ) -
For doctors in northern Italy , fighting what is still Europe ’s worst outbreak of COVID-19 , the frontlines have moved beyond hospitals as special teams try to keep patients alive at home , away from the saturated wards where thousands have died .
FILE PHOTO :
A doctor in protective suit prepares before visiting patients suffering from the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in Bergamo , the epicentre of Italy 's outbreak , April 16 , 2020 .
Patients with symptoms that are not too severe are treated at home in Bergamo , to avoid overcrowding hospitals already overwhelmed with patients needing intensive care .
REUTERS / Flavio Lo Scalzo
For staff on the so - called USCA ( Special Continuity Assistance Units ) teams , it has been a draining struggle , initially hampered by a shortage of vital protective gear , that mixes emergency medicine with the shock of losing unprecedented numbers of patients .
“ It was and still is a tough experience that will leave its mark on everybody , ” said Giulia Villa , a 33 - year - old doctor in the northern town of Bergamo , where hundreds have died since the coronavirus outbreak emerged in a nearby town on Feb. 21 .
“ We gave everything we had and we are still trying to help people .
We especially want to relieve the strain from hospitals by being able to treat patients at home , ” Villa said .
Accounting for half of the more than 22,000 people who have died from the coronavirus in Italy , Bergamo ’s home region of Lombardy on the border with Switzerland remains one of the worst affected zones in the world and its doctors have been under strain for weeks .
“ We saw so many people who needed to be hospitalised very quickly but the problem was , the ambulance service just could n’t keep up , ” she said , struggling to control her emotions .
“ There was a huge number of phone calls , unfortunately , to announce deaths which we just never had before .
So we found ourselves more than treating patients , confirming many deaths at home . ”
Lombardy is Italy ’s economic powerhouse with a hospital system to match any in Europe , but it came close to buckling as ambulances ferried in thousands of patients a day .
In a bid to relieve the pressure , authorities set up the USCA units last month , aiming to offer more specialised treatment than family doctors were able to provide , while keeping patients out of crowded hospitals .
Since March 19 , when they went into operation , the units have carried out more than 1,000 home visits after initial problems getting enough masks and protective equipment for the medical staff and vital oxygen bottles for patients with severe respiratory problems .
“ At the beginning we had very ( little ) protective equipment , now we have enough .
We have masks , we have glasses , we have everything now , ” said Roberto Moretti , the doctor in charge of primary health care in Bergamo .
For frontline medical staff like Villa , getting ready to make a home visit takes at least 15 minutes as she dresses in a full body suit with plastic covers for her hair and feet as well as gloves , a facemask and protective goggles .
Oxygen has also become easier to provide now that suppliers have begun shipping liquid oxygen .
But the personal toll has been enormous as the teams deal with sick and frightened people struggling for life or preparing to watch a family member die .
“ No one is prepared for this but we took action immediately and certainly we had really low moments , moments of fear and discomfort , ” Villa said .
“ But the wish to help and survive this awful situation was the strength that pushed us on every day to help people . ”
Writing by James Mackenzie ;
Editing by Mike Collett - White

UK scientists to make a million potential COVID-19 vaccines before proof .
2020-04-17 14:00:01 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - A million doses of a potential COVID-19 vaccine being developed by British scientists are already being manufactured and will be available by September , even before trials prove whether the shot is effective , the team said on Friday .
FILE PHOTO :
A computer image created by Nexu Science Communication together with Trinity College in Dublin , shows a model structurally representative of a betacoronavirus which is the type of virus linked to COVID-19 , better known as the coronavirus linked to the Wuhan outbreak , shared with Reuters on February 18 , 2020 .
NEXU
Science Communication / via REUTERS
The Oxford University team ’s experimental product , called “ ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 ” , is a type known as a recombinant viral vector vaccine and is one of at least 70 potential COVID-19 candidate shots under development by biotech and research teams around the world .
At least five of those are in preliminary testing in people .
The Oxford scientists said on Friday they were recruiting volunteers for early stage - Phase 1 - human trials of their shot , and large - scale production capacity was being put in place “ at risk ” .
This means the shots will be produced in large numbers at risk of being useless if trials show they do not work .
“ We have started at risk manufacturing of this vaccine not just on a smallish scale ... but with a network of manufacturers in as many as seven different places around the world , ” Adrian Hill , a professor and director of the Jenner Institute at Oxford University , told reporters in an online briefing .
“ The aim is to have at least a million doses by around about September , when we also hope to have efficacy ( trial ) results . ”
He said three of the manufacturing partners were in Britain , two in Europe , one in India and one in China .
The scientists said initial manufacturing costs would be in “ tens of millions ” of pounds and acknowledged the investment risk of pressing ahead with production before verification .
They did not give details of their financing .
More than 2.14 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 143,744 have died , according to a Reuters tally .
Hill ’s team said they plan to start safety and then mid - stage efficacy trials of their potential COVID-19 vaccine in adults aged between 18 and 55 within weeks .
They then plan to expand the trial group to older age groups later , and hope to run a final phase trial with around 5,000 volunteers in the late summer .
Hill and his co - researchers - including Sarah Gilbert , an Oxford professor of vaccinology - said they have “ a high degree of confidence ” that human trials of the ChAdOx1 shot will show positive results in protecting against COVID-19 infection .
They acknowledged that many other research teams worldwide were also working on potential vaccines , with only a proportion likely to be fully successful .
“ We can never be certain these things are going to work , ” Gilbert told the briefing .
“ My view is that I think this one has a very strong chance of working . ”
Asked when the shot - if proven to work - might be able to be made widely available to the public , Hill said the best case scenario would be for regulators to grant it “ emergency use approval ” - something that could be achieved within six weeks beyond the point at which data show whether it is effective .
That , he said , could mean around six weeks from September , when the team hopes to have positive trial data .
Reporting by Kate Kelland ;
Editing by Andrew Cawthorne

Singer R. Kelly's New York sexual abuse trial postponed to September .
2020-04-16 21:21:20 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) - Singer R. Kelly ’s sexual abuse trial in New York has been postponed to Sept. 27 as a judge ruled on Thursday that the previously scheduled July 7 date was not realistic in light of the coronavirus pandemic .
FILE PHOTO : R. Kelly appears for a hearing at Leighton Criminal Court Building in Chicago , Illinois , U.S. , June 26 , 2019 .
E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune / Pool via REUTERS U.S. District Judge Ann Donnelly of the federal court in Brooklyn said at a hearing conducted by telephone that potential jurors would be summoned to fill out written questionnaires on Sept. 14 .
Kelly filed a motion asking to be released on bail , citing multiple confirmed cases of coronavirus in the Chicago jail where he is being held .
Donnelly did not rule on the motion at the hearing , and noted that a judge overseeing a separate federal case against Kelly in Chicago would also have to sign off on any release .
Known for such hits as “ I Believe I Can Fly ” and “ Bump N ’ Grind , ” Kelly , 53 , has faced sexual abuse allegations dating back more than two decades , including accounts from some accusers in the January 2019 Lifetime documentary “ Surviving R. Kelly . ”
He has pleaded not guilty to all criminal charges in several cases filed in New York , Illinois , and Minnesota last year .
The Brooklyn prosecutors have accused Kelly of running a criminal scheme in which women and underage girls were recruited to have sexual activity with him .
They also charged Kelly with bribing an Illinois official in August 1994 to obtain a fake identification for the singer Aaliyah so they could get married .
Kelly was then 27 and Aaliyah was 15 , but according to published reports their marriage license listed Aaliyah ’s age as 18 .
The marriage was annulled in 1995 .
Aaliyah died at age 22 in a 2001 plane crash in the Bahamas .
Federal prosecutors in the Chicago case charged Kelly last July with engaging in sex acts with five minors , recording some of his alleged abuse on video , and using threats to keep victims quiet .
A trial in that case is scheduled for October .
Kelly was also charged last February by Illinois state prosecutors with aggravated sexual abuse , and last August by Minnesota state prosecutors with soliciting sex from a minor .
In 2008 , Kelly was acquitted at trial on state child pornography charges in Illinois .
Reporting By Brendan Pierson in New York ;
editing by Grant McCool

US STOCKS-Nasdaq gains, but earnings, coronavirus worries weigh on market .
2020-04-16 20:04:53 +00:00 .
( For a live blog on the U.S. stock market , click or type LIVE/ in a news window )
* U.S. weekly jobless claims fall slightly * Amazon , Netflix hit record high
* Morgan Stanley drops after profit falls
* Indexes mixed : Dow down 0.1 % , SP 500 up 0.3 % , Nasdaq up 1.1 % ( Updates to late afternoon )
By Caroline Valetkevitch April 16 ( Reuters )
-
The Nasdaq rose in afternoon trading on Thursday as Amazon.com and Netflix surged to record highs , while worries about first - quarter earnings weighed on the Dow and limited gains in the SP 500 .
The Nasdaq outperformed the other two major indexes , extending recent gains .
Amazon.com Inc and Netflix Inc rose to record highs as sweeping stay - at - home orders drove demand for online streaming services and home delivery of goods .
A fall for Boeing Co dragged the Dow down as its European rival Airbus said it was examining requests to defer deliveries after a collapse in travel demand .
Meanwhile , the shutdown in New York was extended until May 15 even as coronavirus - related hospitalizations and deaths fell to their lowest in more than a week , adding to evidence that the hardest - hit state was controlling its spread .
President Donald Trump is now expected to announce “ new guidelines ” for re - opening the economy at a news conference later on Thursday .
Wall Street has swung this week between hopes of a peaking in coronavirus cases and fears of the biggest economic slump since the Great Depression , as the lockdown measures crushed business activity .
“ We ’re not going to see a V - shaped recovery , and I think investors will eventually realize that , so it ’s premature to call a bottom in stocks at this stage , ” said Alan Lancz , president of Alan B. Lancz Associates Inc. , an investment advisory firm based in Toledo , Ohio .
Latest data showed jobless claims fell slightly to 5.2 million last week from an upwardly revised 6.62 million the previous week , but the total figure for the past month still topped a stunning 20 million .
Economists polled by Reuters had estimated 5.1 million jobless claims for the week ended April 11 .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 33.67 points , or 0.14 % , to 23,470.68 , the SP 500 gained 8.37 points , or 0.30 % , to 2,791.73 and the Nasdaq Composite added 89.23 points , or 1.06 % , to 8,482.41 .
Wall Street ’s fear gauge rose for the second straight session , while the flight from risk pressured U.S. Treasury yields .
After a 27.5 % rally from its March lows , the SP 500 index is still about 18 % below its record high as first - quarter earnings kicked off with U.S. banks preparing for a wave of future loan defaults following a halt in business activity .
Analysts estimate earnings for SP 500 companies slumped 12.8 % in the first quarter , which would be the biggest quarterly decline since the financial crisis .
Morgan Stanley wrapped up earnings for the big U.S. lenders , reporting a plunge in quarterly profit as its advisory and wealth management businesses took a hit from the economic fallout of the pandemic .
Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by a 2.13 - to-1 ratio ; on Nasdaq , a 1.60 - to-1 ratio favored decliners .
The SP 500 posted 14 new 52 - week highs and 1 new low ; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 41 new highs and 60 new lows .
Additional reporting by Medha Singh and Akanksha Rana in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Sagarika Jaisinghani , Shounak Dasgupta and Dan Grebler

E-sports pull in more viewers as coronavirus halts live sports matches .
2020-04-16 17:20:54 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Sports fans and players across the world frustrated by cancelled matches because of the coronavirus epidemic are turning to e - sports , with professional real - world athletes joining virtual game tournaments of football , auto racing and basketball .
FILE PHOTO :
Esports - Renault F1 Esports Facility Tour - Whiteways Technical Centre , Enstone , Britain - November 25 , 2019 .
Jarno Opmeer , F1 Esports driver for Renault Sport Team smiles .
Picture taken November 25 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
John Sibley
“ We ’ve seen a dramatic increase in viewership ” for e - sports broadcasts , said Todd Sitrin , senior vice president of Electronic Arts Inc ’s ( EA.O ) Competitive Gaming Division , adding that the maker of battle - royale sensation “ Apex Legends ” saw an increase of two to three times its normal viewership in the first quarter of 2020 .
“ All the traditional sports have suspended their seasons and their broadcasts , so what we ’ve seen is that fans are really searching for a way to get their sports fix ” , Sitrin said .
E - sports tournaments are largely available on game streaming platforms like Twitch , YouTube Gaming , Facebook Gaming and Mixer and are also broadcasted on TV channels including ESPN and Fox Sports .
Online streaming platforms recorded a 43 % jump in viewership to nearly 495 million hours in the week starting March 29 , compared to the week at the beginning of 2020 , according to analytics firm Stream Hatchet .
Amazon.com Inc ( AMZN.O ) ’s Twitch , which dominates the market for game streaming , recorded a nearly 60 % jump in veiwership in March with over 1,300 million hours watched , compared to a year earlier , according to Superdata , a Nielsen company .
Besides online streaming platforms , viewership across TV broadcasts of tournaments has also seen a significant increase from January to March .
The March 29 race at the Texas Motor Speedway in the eNASCAR iRacing series , a popular simulation racing game , is the most viewed e - sports event ever on linear television as of March 30 , according to Nielsen Sports .
Simulation racing games in e - sports provides an opportunity for professional drivers who are stuck home missing the competition and camaraderie on the tracks , said Steve Hood , president at Motorsport Games .
But sports fans are hungry for any competitive action .
Last week , ESPN said here it would broadcast League of Legends ' 2020 Championship Series Spring Split Playoffs , highlighting the online multi - player battle game and venturing beyond traditionally broadcasted sports like NBA , FIFA and NASCAR 's iRacing .
The move to League of Legends shows a real paradigm shift , said Charles Conroy , vice president of gaming at The Switch , a live video production firm .
“ They ’re no longer just pandering to normal sports fans and giving them a replacement ( for live sports ) ” , he said .
They ’re actually showing true hardcore e - sports ” .
Riot Games ’ League of Legends is the most - watched game on Twitch in the first quarter of 2020 , according to Superdata .
Reporting by Ayanti Bera in Bengaluru and Rollo Ross in Los Angeles ;
Editing by Bernard Orr

Barcelona coach not convinced by plans to restart La Liga .
2020-04-16 16:24:01 +00:00 .
BARCELONA ( Reuters ) - Barcelona coach Quique Setien is pessimistic that the Spanish top flight season will be able to be completed and has called La Liga ’s conditions for the campaign recommencing “ a non - starter ” due to the continued threat of the novel coronavirus .
Soccer Football - Champions League - FC Barcelona Press Conference - Stadio San Paolo , Naples , Italy - February 24 , 2020 Barcelona coach Quique Setien during the press conference REUTERS /
Ciro De Luca / Files La Liga has been on hold since March 10 due to the pandemic although president Javier Tebas has said matches could start up again on either May 29 , June 7 or June 28 , most likely without spectators .
Tebas has estimated Spanish clubs would lose around one billion euros ( $ 1.09 billion ) if the season is not completed .
A draft of the league ’s protocol , seen by Reuters , for returning to training and matches once given the green light by health authorities recommends that clubs hold training camps at their training grounds or hotels for a two - week period before matches can start again .
Only first team players , coaching staff and a small number of other staff would be allowed to access the facility , with everyone at the training camp being subjected to two COVID-19 tests before accessing the site .
Testing would continue to take place during the camps , added the protocol .
But Setien , whose Barca side held a two - point lead over Real Madrid at the top of the standings when the campaign was indefinitely postponed , does not think it is so simple .
“ Everyone wants to be ready for when the season starts again but that can not happen until the health authorities can guarantee that there will be no problems , ” Setien told Catalan radio station RAC1 on Thursday .
“ I have read the protocol and the reality is I do n’t know if it can be carried out as it is written , I think it ’s unworkable , I think it ’s very difficult logistically . ”
Barca midfielder Sergio Busquets also expressed doubts about the feasability of clubs holding training camps .
“ We can start training again little by little but it will be difficult once everyone comes together and the competition starts again and teams start travelling , ” he told Spanish radio stations Onda Cero and Cadena Cope .
“ I have heard that La Liga wants teams to concentrate for a few months , I think that ’s too much
and it can not be done .
There will be too many problems . ”
La Liga declined to comment on Setien and Busquets ’ comments although a source close to the matter said stakeholders were continuing to discuss a plan to return to matches along with the association of European leagues .
“ The objective of La Liga is to create a protocol of the highest possible standard that can allow return to training and get us in a good , healthy , way to the light at the end of this dark tunnel , ” added the source .
More than 19,000 people have died from the coronavirus in Spain although this week the government loosened the terms of a strict lockdown to allow some businesses back to work .
Reporting by Richard Martin ;
Editing by Christian Radnedge

With drones and tests, India battles to keep virus out of Mumbai's slums .
2020-04-16 15:43:21 +00:00 .
MUMBAI ( Reuters ) -
In an air - conditioned government building in Mumbai , a dozen officials are glued to a giant screen showing live drone and CCTV footage of crowded slums , the frontline in the city ’s battle to contain the spread of the coronavirus .
FILE PHOTO :
Staff members of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation ( BMC ) watch large screens to monitor the movement of people on the roads , inside a " war room " focused on halting the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Mumbai , India , April 10 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Francis Mascarenhas
When cameras captured dozens of shoppers thronging a market in Mumbai ’s low - income Dongri area last week , violating the countrywide lockdown begun on March 25 , officials called in the police to disperse the crowd .
Twenty minutes later , the footage from Dongri showed only a handful of people still milling around .
To help enforce a lockdown in what is one of the most densely populated areas on earth , authorities are using drones , re - oriented traffic cameras , and heat maps , but these can fall short when it comes to maze - like slum alleys .
“ Hundreds will fall through the cracks , thousands .
But as long as it is not in millions we are safe , ” Praveen Pardeshi , who heads the city ’s main civic body , told Reuters in an interview .
Mumbai is home to around 12 million people , of which some 65 % live in slums .
A further six million people are estimated to live in peripheral districts .
Confirmed cases in the city have ticked up above 1,900 , including 113 deaths , making up around 15 % of India ’s more than 12,000 known cases .
Mumbai ’s Dharavi , often considered Asia ’s biggest slum with an estimated 1 million residents , has reported 71 cases and experts fear the number could climb quickly .
Authorities stress that part of Mumbai ’s high rates stem from more aggressive testing .
The city has conducted 2,374 tests per million , versus 448 per million in capital New Delhi , according to a Mumbai government report reviewed by Reuters on Thursday .
Around 82 % of coronavirus patients in Mumbai are stable , with just 2 % requiring critical care , the data shows .
“ If this percentage remains of stable cases , then we are through , ” said Pardeshi .
Authorities have cordoned off parts of the slums , set up special fever clinics and created massive quarantine centres in a stadium and empty government buildings .
But the restrictions are hard to observe when living at such close quarter .
On a recent afternoon in a narrow passage encumbered by goats and electrical wire , police officers pleaded with a dozen Dharavi residents to go home .
Asif Siddiqui , a construction shop worker who lives in a one - room apartment with six family members , stayed put .
“ They ask us to keep one meter distance , but my home is two meters long .
We are trying to co - operate , but it is impossible to stay home in a place like this , ” said Siddiqui .
Reporting by Shilpa Jamkhandikar and Alexandra Ulmer ;
Editing by Raissa Kasolowsky

Inspired by Mother Teresa, Kenyan safari operator feeds 24,000 families .
2020-04-16 15:07:05 +00:00 .
NAIROBI ( Reuters ) - Safari operator Pankaj Shah would normally be showing tourists around the beauty spots of his native Kenya .
Instead , he is spearheading a volunteer effort to feed thousands of families left penniless when the new coronavirus devastated the economy .
Pankaj Shah , founder of the Team Pankaj aid group , stands near boxes with food donations waiting to be distributed to people in need in the capital 's poorest neighbourhoods , in Nairobi , Kenya , April 14 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Baz Ratner “ One old woman told us she had n’t eaten for days - her sons had stopped supplying her because they have no work , ” he said , walking down a line of young men packing rice , flour , beans and long - life milk into boxes .
Kenya reported its first case of the coronavirus on March 12 .
Schools closed the following week .
Businesses shut , families left the capital and the casual work sustaining the vast majority of urban Kenyans dried up .
The government offered tax breaks - little help to those too poor to pay taxes .
Newspapers called for “ total lockdown ” and forgotten families in the slums began to starve and to seethe .
“ People were getting hungry and angry , ” Shah said .
Someone had to act , he decided , and he asked a couple of friends to pitch in .
A local school , shuttered by the virus , offered their premises as headquarters .
Kenya ’s Asian community - officially recognised three years ago as the nation ’s 44th tribe - rallied round .
They brought cheques or truckloads of food or vegetables planted for export and now marooned by the lack of flights .
The operation has been going daily for three weeks .
Shah ’s volunteers , who call themselves Team Pankaj , have sent out 24,000 hampers since setting up on March 22 , each with enough food to last a family of five for two weeks .
He is asking wealthy Kenyans to donate 4,000 Kenya shillings each ( $ 40 ) to fund the hampers - about the cost of two pizzas and a bottle of wine , he points out .
“ I just need half the rich people here to care enough to fund a hamper , ” he says impatiently .
His phone buzzes with community leaders , imams , church leaders and chiefs asking for help .
Shah tests potential partners with a small distribution - say 100 boxes - and scales up if they handle it well .
Last week he sent two lorryloads of food to a distribution in the Deep Sea slum , where residents presented orange tokens and had their fingers inked before carting away the boxes and bags of vegetables .
Volunteers helped pregnant women and those with babies .
Mary Wangui , 29 , said she had been desperate .
“ You ca n’t hug a child to sleep when they are hungry , ” she said .
Although Shah has never run any kind of aid operation before , he has a guiding spirit : Mother Teresa , whom he said he met more than three decades ago in Nairobi .
A wheel spun off the Roman Catholic nun ’s ancient pickup truck and hit his new Mercedes , he said .
The accident brought an unlikely friendship between a “ young , wild ” businessman and the world famous missionary who cared for the poor , he said .
He volunteered with her for three months , he said , and adopted a baby girl from one of her orphanages .
“ I think about what she would do , ” he says , after the coronavirus hit .
“ That ’s the inspiration for the rest of my life . ”
Editing by Janet Lawrence

UPDATE 2-Sweden's Verisure seeks to re-open Europe's junk bond market .
2020-04-16 12:28:35 +00:00 .
( Adds quotes , further background )
By Abhinav Ramnarayan and Yoruk Bahceli LONDON , April 16 ( Reuters ) - Sweden ’s Verisure is looking to become the first junk - rated company to access European bond markets in nearly two months , with hefty central bank stimulus helping to restore confidence in a market battered by the COVID-19 crisis .
A successful deal for the Swedish maker of security alarms could pave the way for other companies with low credit ratings .
Verisure , a maker of security alarms that ’s rated B2 / B by Moody ’s and SP Global , is looking to price a 150 million - euro ( $ 163.26 million ) issue of senior secured five - year bonds later on Thursday , according to a lead manager .
The bonds are redeemable after just one year , the manager added .
If successful , the deal will reopen the market for debt sales from Europe ’s riskier corporate borrowers , which has been shut since Feb 20
European companies have faced a less receptive market than those in the U.S. , where 20 junk - rated companies have sold more than $ 13 billion of debt since the market reopened in first week of April , according to Refinitiv IFR data .
“ The European market usually takes its lead from the U.S.
The U.S. reopened with low cyclical names that needed liquidity and has gradually moved to more cyclical businesses needing a liquidity boost , ” said David Newman , chief investment officer of global high - yield at Allianz Global Investors .
“ If successful we would expect to see more defensive names [ in Europe ] also come to the market before any dip down into the more challenged sectors . ”
The spread of coronavirus has hit so - called junk bonds hard , with average yields in the European market trebling from 2.73 % in late February to 8.87 % at their March 23 peak , according to Markit ’s iBoxx index of high - yield debt .
The European Central Bank has since pledged to pump unprecedented amounts of money into bond markets .
Unlike the U.S. Federal Reserve , it only buys investment - grade debt , , but the strength of the stimulus has lifted sentiment .
“ Though it has been quiet in Europe , the market has been open , ” said a source familiar with the Verisure transaction .
“ But it is likely expensive and slightly restrictive in terms of size , covenants and position in the capital structure . ”
Verisure is having to pay up for the privilege of issuing new debt - marketing the deal to price at a 5 % yield , far higher than the 3.5 % it paid last time it sold a bond with a similar tenor .
High - yield market participants believe appetite for deals exists , should other European companies be prepared to pay that type of premium .
“ Many sectors are under pressure to maintain credit ratings so are under pressure not to pay dividends and preserve cash , which is to the benefit of credit holders , ” said Andrey Kuznetsov , a portfolio manager at Federated Hermes , a 435 billion - pound ( $ 542.53 billion ) London - based fund manager .
But bankers arranging junk deals note that after refinancing of debt to take advantage of low interest rates over the past couple of years , few junk - rated European companies have immediate financing needs .
They can wait to secure more attractive rates .
“ The new reality of fair value and new issue premiums is going to put the vast majority of issuers off unless they absolutely have to [ sell a bond ] , ” said a head of syndicate at a European bank .
JP Morgan is global coordinator on the Verisure deal and joint bookrunner along with Deutsche Bank , Goldman Sachs , Morgan Stanley and Nordea .
$ 1 = 0.9188 euros $ 1 = 0.8018 pounds Reporting by Abhinav Ramnarayan and Yoruk Bahceli ; editing by
Sinead Cruise , Mike Harrison , Larry King

Oil prices recover from sharp losses caused by U.S. stockpile surge .
2020-04-16 10:07:07 +00:00 .
LONDON ( Reuters ) - Oil prices ticked up on Thursday after sharp losses in the previous session , with investors hoping that a big build - up in U.S. inventories may mean producers have little option but to deepen output cuts as the coronavirus pandemic ravages demand .
FILE PHOTO :
The sun sets behind a crude oil pump jack on a drill pad in the Permian Basin in Loving County , Texas , U.S. November 24 , 2019 .
Picture taken November 24 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Angus Mordant / File Photo
With official data showing U.S. inventories surging the most on record , U.S. West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) fell on Wednesday to its lowest since February 2002 , with Brent losing more than 6 % .
Brent crude was down 19 cents , or 0.7 % , at $ 27.50 a barrel by 0754 GMT .
WTI was up 7 cents , or 0.4 % , at $ 19.94 .
WTI eked out its first tentative gains after falling for four sessions .
Both contracts are poised for weekly losses of around 10 % .
Swiss bank Julius Baer ’s Head of Economics Norbert Ruecker said “ oil prices must remain depressed to force shut - ins among non - cartelised producers , ” such as the United States , where much production is not economic at current prices .
“ We stick to our Neutral view and see prices continuing to swing wildly around current levels in the very near term , ” he added .
Concerns about crumbling demand kept a lid on gains , with both contracts trading earlier in the session as much as 2.5 % higher than on Wednesday .
Energy Information Administration data also showed large U.S. refined fuels stock builds despite refiners operating at 69 % of capacity nationwide , the lowest since September 2008 .
“ The massive storage build , as counterintuitive as it sounds , did provide some price support as the build foreshadows that more wellhead closures are just around the corner , which effectively trims U.S. supply , ” said Stephen Innes , chief global markets strategist at AxiCorp .
The stockpile figures followed a report from the International Energy Agency ( IEA ) that forecast oil demand would fall by 29 million barrels per day ( bpd ) in April to the lowest in 25 years , and to just below 30 % of pre - coronavirus global demand levels .
The projected demand loss is far more than the 9.7 million bpd output cuts agreed by Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allied producers including Russia .
Hoped - for cuts of another 10 million bpd from other countries , including the U.S. , could lower production by 20 million bpd , although some analysts have questioned that number .
Some countries have also committed to increasing purchases of oil for their strategic stockpiles , but there are limits to how much oil can be bought and the extent of global coordination .
Speaking of U.S. strategic reserve buying , Commerzbank analysts said that “ this would accommodate 23 million barrels , which would normally constitute a massive additional reserve but these days would only just be enough to cope with one weekly increase in stocks . ”
Highlighting current oversupply concerns , Brent ’s six - month contango , a market structure where prompt prices are lower than those for later dates , kept hovering around $ 9.4 a barrel , near levels seen before talk of a global output cut .
Additional reporting by Roslan Khasawneh in Singapore and Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo ;
Editing by Mike Harrison and Elaine Hardcastle

Zalando sales bounce back after initial virus hit .
2020-04-16 09:23:07 +00:00 .
BERLIN ( Reuters ) - German online fashion retailer Zalando expressed optimism over the second quarter after sales rebounded from a dip in March as coronavirus lockdowns were introduced across Europe , it said on Thursday .
FILE PHOTO :
The logo of fashion retailer Zalando pictured at its new headquarters in Berlin , Germany , April 10 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Hannibal Hanschke / File Photo
“ We are returning to a growth path faster than we had anticipated , ” co - Chief Executive Rubin Ritter told reporters , adding that a global recession is likely to keep spending depressed but e - commerce would still benefit from the crisis .
With customers confined to their homes , Europe ’s biggest pure online fashion retailer has registered higher demand for leisurewear and nightwear , running and training outfits and beauty products , finance chief David Schroeder told reporters .
Zalando , which last week announced 350 million euros ( $ 382 million ) of cost cuts to ride out the crisis without layoffs , has also seen strong demand for childrens ’ products .
All categories have been performing better in the past couple of weeks , apart from party wear , Schroeder said .
First - quarter sales growth is expected to be between 10.1 % and 11.6 % , down from 19.5 % in the last quarter of 2019 , the company said , with an adjusted loss before interest and tax of up to 110 million euros ( $ 119.6 million ) .
Gross merchandise volume ( GMV ) - sales made by itself or its partners - had fallen 8 % in the three weeks following March 9 but started to grow again in the two weeks after March 30 .
The company reports final first - quarter results on May 7 .
Bernstein analysts said the estimated loss was bigger than the 43 million euros they had expected , but the GMV impact was much better than their forecast of a 50 % hit during lockdowns .
The softer earnings may spook investors , but Bernstein ’s Aneesha Sherman and Aleksey Chuhay said that much of that is likely to be down to one - off effects , adding that “ the strong sales numbers and ongoing partner programme transition bode well for remainder of the year ” .
Shares in the company opened with a 5 % gain .
Zalando also said that 250 million euros of its planned cost cuts would come from marketing and overheads , while 100 million would come from capital expenditure .
It said it had a cash position of about 1 billion euros on March 31 .
British rival ASOS last week said that it was raising equity and extending debt facilities to shore up its finances in case of a prolonged business downturn from the coronavirus pandemic .
To help closed stores to sell online , Zalando had already announced that it is waiving its commission fee for all new and existing physical stores that sell their goods on its platform from April 1 to May 31 .
On Thursday , Zalando said it sold about 35,000 items from bricks - and - mortar stores over the Easter weekend , when its partners doubled sales to 1 million items as Zalando shifts from being a wholesaler to more of a platform for brands .
( $ 1 = 0.9173 euros )
Reporting by Emma Thomasson ;
Editing by David Goodman

UPDATE 2-Australia's top casinos flag big layoffs, new debt funding to combat virus .
2020-04-16 05:47:26 +00:00 .
* Crown , Star stand down about 20,000 staff due to coronavirus curbs
* They raise $ 760 mln combined in bank credit to weather storm
* Crown , Star shares up amid broader market ’s dip ( Recasts ; adds details on debt funding and background ; changes packaging slug for media clients )
By Nikhil Nainan
April 16 ( Reuters ) -
Australia ’s top two casino operators said on Thursday they have laid off about 20,000 staff either temporarily or permanently and lined up about $ 760 million in bank credit to survive the coronavirus crisis that has battered the industry .
Crown Resorts Ltd , the country ’s biggest , said it secured A$ 1.01 billion ( $ 634.38 million ) in debt funding and that 95 % of its employees have now been laid off either temporarily or permanently .
And separately , No . 2 Star Entertainment Group said it has added an A$ 200 million 12 - month credit line , and reiterated that it has stood down about 8,500 staff .
Casino operators are among the businesses worst hit by Australia ’s measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus , which include shuttering of casinos and severe restrictions on movement of people .
New Zealand ’s SkyCity Entertainment Group has also temporarily laid off most of its staff in Australia .
The layoffs come as Australia ’s economy looks destined for its first recession in three decades as large swaths of the economy have been forced to shut to fight the outbreak .
Crown said on Thursday it got A$ 560 million in new bilateral facilities and secured a further facility of A$ 450 million to fund the construction of its project in Sydney .
“ As a result of today ’s announcement , Crown is well placed to withstand an extended period of closure , ” Ken Barton , Crown ’s chief executive officer , said in a statement .
Crown also said it will need to hire 2,000 people when the Sydney project opens .
Star said the addition of the new 12 - month facility brings it cash and debt reserves up to around A$ 700 million .
Shares of Star jumped 8 % by afternoon , while Crown was up 0.4 % .
The wider market was down 1.5 % .
Crown added on Thursday that senior management pay , including that of the CEO , and director fees will be cut by 20 % .
However , Crown said it will pay its interim dividend on Friday , unlike Star , which had previously said it would defer its payout .
Crown expects underlying operating cash costs to drop to between A$ 20 million to A$ 30 million per month as non - essential services at its casinos in Melbourne and Perth are suspended .
The Australian government has pledged A$ 130 billion to subsidise the wages of an estimated 6 million people .
But data on Thursday showed the unemployment rate tick higher in March before the widespread restrictions and shutdowns kicked in , and economists warned the worst was yet to come .
( $ 1 = 1.5921 Australian dollars )
Reporting by Nikhil Kurian Nainan and Shreya Mariam Job in Bengaluru ; Editing by Himani Sarkar and Muralikumar
Anantharaman

After 'death warrant' coronavirus showdown, Republican Congressman sees fundraising surge .
2020-04-16 00:15:06 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -
The Republican congressman who thought he signed his political “ death warrant ” when he enraged U.S. President Donald Trump by slowing the $ 2.3 trillion coronavirus relief bill raised a hefty $ 647,975 for his reelection campaign in the first quarter .
FILE PHOTO :
U.S. Representative Thomas Massie ( R - KY ) ( R ) talks with reporters as he departs after a Republican caucus candidates ' forum for the next House speaker at the U.S. Capitol in Washington , October 8 , 2015 .
REUTERS /
Jonathan Ernst
That three - month haul is more than Kentucky ’s
Thomas Massie has raised in any two - year campaign cycle since he was first elected in 2012 on a wave of support by conservative Tea Party voters - and more than double the haul of his primary challenger .
More than a third of it came after Trump called for him to be thrown out of the Republican Party , Massie told Reuters in an interview .
“ None of the fundraising was anticipated , ” said Massie , who was nicknamed “ Mr. No ” even before his manuever on March 27 , when he called for a roll call vote on passage of the coronavirus stimulus bill instead of agreeing to a voice vote , which allows fewer members of Congress to be present .
“ I walked into the chamber , expecting to sign my political death warrant . ”
Massie angered his colleagues by forcing many to return to the Capitol as the new coronavirus began to surge across the United States .
But he insists he did not intend to slow passage of the bill to ease the pandemic ’s heavy economic toll , only to force fellow members of the House of Representatives to indicate their support or opposition to it .
Massie said his conclusion is that voters in his district of northern Kentucky are not upset with him , even after Trump said he should be kicked out of the Republican party .
“ I called him up and left a message and said I had no hard feelings , ” Massie said .
The first - quarter haul leaves Massie well positioned as he faces a challenge from political neophyte Todd McMurtry , who is challenging him for the Republican nomination .
McMurtry accused Massie in a television ad of “ betraying ” the president .
McMurtry raised $ 320,797 in the first quarter , according to a filing with the Federal Election Commission .
McMurtry ’s campaign faces the same challenge that all insurgents do during the pandemic : he is being forced to get to know voters in on social media rather than by knocking on voters ’ doors in the solidly Republican congressional district ahead of the June 23 primary .
However , McMurtry said , more people are at home and answering the telephone these days .
“ The coronavirus has made campaigning more difficult in some ways in that we ca n’t hold events , knock doors , or do a lot of retail campaigning .
However , we have had a great response to our TV and digital ads , social media efforts , and to our telephone town halls , ” McMurtry said in an email .
Reporting by Susan Cornwell ;
Editing by Scott Malone and Richard Chang

Polish MPs debate tighter abortion rules, protests muted amid coronavirus .
2020-04-15 20:07:27 +00:00 .
WARSAW ( Reuters ) - Polish lawmakers debated a citizens ’ bill on Wednesday to tighten already restrictive abortion rules as rights activists protested on social media and in small clusters in front of parliament , with public gatherings restricted by the coronavirus .
Polish lawmakers attend a session of parliament in Warsaw , Poland April 15 , 2020 .
Slawomir Kaminski / Agencja Gazeta via REUTERS Abortion rights are highly contentious in Poland , where the Roman Catholic church still wields broad influence , not least over the conservative ruling Law and Justice ( PiS ) party , but considerable public opposition is currently muted by the lockdown .
The bill would ban abortion in one of the few instances in which it is allowed in Poland - where prenatal tests show serious , irreversible damage to the foetus .
Other preconditions are incest , rape and risks to maternal health .
“ We are talking about whether in Poland we can cut people into pieces without anaesthetic , ” Kaja Godek , one of the authors of the proposal , told parliament .
PiS campaigns on introducing more Catholic religious values into public life , but has signalled some reluctance to back the bill ahead of a presidential election on May 10 .
A PiS spokeswoman said that parliament would probably vote on Thursday to send the measure to a committee for further deliberations .
PiS has in the past retreated from proposals virtually to ban abortion outright after a public outcry .
By Wednesday , about 700,000 people had signed an online petition to the government opposing the bill .
BLACK UMBRELLAS
A few dozen protesters gathered around parliament and lone black umbrellas - a symbol of Poland ’s abortion rights movement - dotted windows in parts of Warsaw .
“ You are exposing poor women to fear , ” said Barbara Nowacka , a leftist member of parliament .
“ Polish women are smart , brave and aware ... they will choose the good of their family and their loved ones . ”
Campaigners also say the PiS would be criticised if it pushed the bill through when restrictions on public life because of the coronavirus pandemic prohibit demonstrations .
Opinion polls indicate that incumbent president Andrzej Duda , a PiS ally , is likely to be re - elected on May 10 , although the pandemic has increased the unpredictability of the vote .
PiS is seeking to hold the ballot by post rather than polling booths , but a bill to do so might clear parliament only days before the election date , leaving little time to organise .
The opposition has said the vote should be postponed because opposition campaigning has been limited by the pandemic while Duda ’s office has given him a privileged platform .
Rights activists say the pandemic has also curbed Polish women ’s access to abortion abroad because of travel restrictions throughout Europe .
Many women terminate pregnancies in Germany , Slovakia and further away , in cases when it would be illegal in Poland , or when hospitals refuse to perform an abortion that is legal .
Additional reporting by Alan Charlish , Joanna Plucinska and Alicja Ptak ;
Writing by Justyna Pawlak ; Editing by Janet Lawrence and Kevin Liffey

Defeat virus first, criticise later, WHO envoy says after U.S. funding halt .
2020-04-15 16:27:02 +00:00 .
A medical workers stretches outside Maimonides Medical Center during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID19 ) in the Brooklyn borough of New York , U.S. , April 14 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 14 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Caitlin Ochs DUBAI
( Reuters ) -
The World Health Organization ’s COVID-19 special envoy on Wednesday urged countries to focus on defeating the deadly virus after the United States halted funding to the WHO over its handling of the global pandemic .
President Donald Trump , who has become increasingly hostile towards the WHO , on Tuesday announced the United States would cut off funding the Geneva - based organisation , prompting condemnation from infectious disease experts .
“ There are one or two countries that seem to be quite concerned about actions that were taken early on in the pandemic ...
We say to everybody , we plead with everybody , look forward .
Focus on the epic struggle right now and leave the recriminations until later , ” special envoy David Nabarro told an online conference , without naming the United States or Trump .
“ If in the process you decide you want to declare that you ’re going to withdraw funding or make other comments about the WHO , remember this is not just the WHO , this is the whole public health community that is involved right now and every single person in the world ... is sacrificing . ”
The United States contributed more than $ 400 million to the WHO in 2019 , roughly 15 % of its budget and its biggest overall donor .
Trump has said the WHO failed to act on credible reports from sources in China ’s Wuhan province , where the virus was first identified in December , that conflicted with Beijing ’s account of the spread .
Nabarro , who served as the United Nations special envoy on Ebola , warned countries against complacency in tackling the virus which has infected some 2,001,548 people globally and killed at least 131,101 , according to a Reuters tally .
“ Respond rapidly , respond robustly and then you will be able to contain this virus and hold it at bay , ” he said .
“ If we argue about it , we will get into trouble .
The virus will find its way between us and will catch us out and we will be asking ourselves why on earth did n’t we move more quickly .
Why on earth did n’t we develop a unified strategic approach . ”
Reporting by Alexander Cornwell ;
Editing by Toby Chopra and Mark Heinrich

UPDATE 2-HNA postpones bond repayment as small investors seethe .
2020-04-15 11:30:45 +00:00 .
* HNA , bondholders agree on 1 - year repayment extension
* Small bondholders overwhelmingly oppose motion
* Shanghai exchange suspends HNA bond trading ( Recasts with agreement to postpone repayment , adds details )
By Andrew Galbraith and Zoey Zhang
SHANGHAI / BEIJING , April 15 ( Reuters ) - Cash - strapped Chinese conglomerate HNA Group has reached an agreement with bondholders to delay the repayment of a $ 163 million bond maturing on Wednesday after late notice of a meeting to discuss the plan left small investors seething .
The company , which appealed for government help with its liquidity crisis two months ago , had been due to repay 390.4 million yuan outstanding of a 1.15 billion yuan ( $ 162.88 million ) 7.1 % April 2020 bond on Wednesday , but convened a conference call late Tuesday to discuss a one - year moratorium .
In an official filing on Wednesday , HNA said three bondholders accounting for 98.26 % of the holdings of investors present at the meeting had voted to extend the repayment date to April 15 , 2021 .
Twenty - nine bondholders at the meeting voted against the extension .
“ ( HNA ) settled things up with the big bondholders , ” said a participant at the meeting , who declined to be named .
An HNA spokesperson directed Reuters to the official statement .
Many bondholders had been unhappy with the meeting on Tuesday , as they had been given only 30 minutes notice to prepare materials and attend .
“ HNA called during the day to say there would be a meeting in the evening and asked for email addresses ” to send a meeting notice to , the participant said .
“ By the time the notices were received it was already 6:30 pm . ”
The notice asked bondholders to register for the call before 7 p.m. with copies of identification and company licences , said the person .
Bondholders were told to submit votes on the motion to extend repayment by 9:30 p.m.
During the conference call , angry investors questioned the legitimacy of the meeting and shouted “ HNA , go bankrupt ” , according to a transcript of the call confirmed by the person .
Some investors still on the line after the call ended cursed HNA , with one saying it would “ go down in infamy . ”
In a letter of apology published on its WeChat account late on Tuesday , the company said it had been negotiating an extension with major investors on April 14 and convened a conference call with all bondholders to vote for the plan on that day .
“ Since the number of investors is huge , there were deficiencies in our work to notify the meeting and preparations , ” HNA said in its letter .
“ We are deeply sorry for all investors for that . ”
In its filing on Wednesday , HNA said that due to the impact of the new coronavirus epidemic , bond issuers are exempt from rules requiring that bondholders be notified 30 days in advance of a meeting .
HNA in February asked the Hainan provincial government to lead a working group aimed at resolving its increasing liquidity risks after a slowdown in business caused by the coronavirus outbreak .
The company , which directly owns or holds stakes in a number of local Chinese carriers , including Hainan Airlines , said it was not able to thoroughly deal with liquidity risks on its own .
The Shanghai Stock Exchange twice halted trading in HNA ’s 5.99 % 2022 bonds on Wednesday , citing abnormal fluctuations .
The bonds plunged more than 30 % on Wednesday morning .
$ 1 = 7.0606 Chinese yuan
Reporting by Andrew Galbraith in Shanghai and Zhang Yan and Leng Cheng in Beijing ; Editing by Shri Navaratnam and
Mark Potter

Exclusive: Ukraine ready to ban wheat exports if necessary - deputy minister .
2020-04-15 10:22:02 +00:00 .
KIEV ( Reuters ) - Ukraine , one of world ’s top grain exporters , is ready to ban wheat exports if sales exceed limits agreed with traders , the deputy economy minister in charge of agriculture told Reuters on Wednesday .
FILE PHOTO :
A wheat field is pictured near the village of Zhovtneve , Ukraine , July 14 , 2016 .
REUTERS /
Valentyn Ogirenko
The disruptions to supply chains caused by the new coronavirus have prompted neighbouring Romania to ban cereal exports to non - European Union destinations .
Another neighbour , Russia has also limited grain exports and sold grain from its stockpile to increase supply to its flour millers and bakers .
Ukraine has exported 18 million tonnes of wheat so far in 2019/20 , leaving an additional 2 million tonnes available for export over the rest of this season that runs until June 30 , in line with a memorandum signed with traders .
“ If the pace of exports becomes such that we are exporting 2 million tonnes in April , so , as we agreed ( with traders ) and warned - we will have to implement the paragraph of the memorandum to stop exports , ” Taras Vysotskiy told Reuters .
“ So far , the pace that we are tracking looks like we are not going to exceed these 2 million tonnes , ” he said in a video interview .
Ukraine ’s wheat harvest largely exceeds domestic consumption , but last month Ukrainian bakers and millers asked the government to limit grain exports to maintain bread prices .
The government said it would limit the export of some food products but so far has only halted foreign sales of the popular staple buckwheat .
It has also asked parliament to approve lifting import duties on some cereals .
Looking ahead , Vysotskiy said Ukraine ’s 2020/21 wheat exports could fall sharply to 12 - 15 million tonnes from around 20 million in 2019/20 following a reduction in the sowing area caused by poor weather .
DRY WEATHER AND FROST Ukraine has imposed strict lockdown measures to fight the spread of the coronavirus pandemic , but Vysotskiy said the restrictions had not affected the spring sowing , which had taken place at an even faster pace than a year ago .
Ukraine harvested a record 75.1 million tonnes of grain in 2019 and exports could reach all - time high of 52 - 55 million tonnes in the 2019/20 season which runs from July to June , Vysotskiy said .
However , after a record harvest last year , the minister said a lack of rain during sowing late last year and unfavourable weather conditions this spring would lead to a smaller wheat harvest and lower exports .
“ We had three very dry months and high temperatures and frosts .
It rained across all Ukraine , which improved the situation a bit , but of course we will not match the record harvest this year , ” Vysotskiy said .
Ukraine had sowed 2.7 million hectares of spring crops as of April 10 , or 18 % of the expected sowing area of 15.3 million hectares .
Vysotskiy said the forecast for the grain harvest for 2020 has repeatedly changed depending on the weather .
It is now at 65 - 67 million tonnes but may drop to 60 million if the weather deteriorates .
Editing by Matthias Williams and Barbara Lewis

Inside ICU, Turkish doctors rush back to work after coronavirus recovery .
2020-04-15 09:09:37 +00:00 .
ISTANBUL ( Reuters ) -
In the intensive care unit of a hospital in Istanbul , the heart of Turkey ’s coronavirus outbreak , doctors and nurses have rushed back to duty to fight against the pandemic days after recovering themselves from the disease .
A nurse and a doctor take care of a patient suffering from the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) at an intensive care unit of the Medicana International Hospital in Istanbul , Turkey , April 14 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 14 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Umit Bektas Eighty - five healthcare workers at Medicana International Hospital , including 14 doctors , have been infected with the COVID-19 disease , Medical Director Cetin Koksal told Reuters .
But just over a month after Turkey logged its first coronavirus case , he said two - thirds of the staff including eight doctors have recovered and returned to work , where about 100 coronavirus patients are being treated .
In rare access to the ICU at this private hospital , staff who had just emerged from their own quarantines said they were proud of their tireless work despite fears for their families .
One of them is Nihal Yavuz , an infection control nurse who said in full protective gear that the team was working devotedly despite concerns .
“ We are terrified of infecting our families .
Some of us stay away from our families , ” she said in the hospital ’s intensive care ward , where seven patients are on mechanical ventilation .
“ Some of us got it .
Me too , I got coronavirus .
We had to stay away from our families for 14 days .
Then we came back to work after recovering .
We are very proud of practising this job , ” Yavuz said .
The number of coronavirus cases in Turkey has surged above 65,000 since the first case was reported on March 11 .
Authorities say 60 % of those cases are in Istanbul , a city of 16 million people .
The government has halted all international flights , restricted domestic travel , closed schools , bars and cafes , and suspended mass prayers .
It has also begun imposing weekend lockdowns in larger cities to curb the outbreak , but has stopped short of a nationwide stay - at - home order .
Medical personnel have been logging unprecedented hours at Medicana , where some 20 doctors are now working on what would normally be quiet weekends , Koksal said .
The doctors “ returned to work as soon as they tested negative again , and started treating patients without rest , ” he said .
“ They have become even more valuable for us . ”
Additional reporting by Yesim Dikmen ;
Writing by Ece Toksabay ;
Editing by Jonathan Spicer

ASML first quarter net profit misses estimates, 2020 targets still achievable .
2020-04-15 08:01:37 +00:00 .
AMSTERDAM ( Reuters ) - ASML Holding NV , a key supplier to computer chip makers such as Samsung and Intel , reported worse - than - expected first quarter earnings on Wednesday but said customer demand for its products remains strong despite the coronavirus outbreak .
FILE PHOTO :
ASML CFO Roger Dassen attends a news conference after fourth quarter earnings in Veldhoven , Netherlands January 22 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Piroschka van de Wouw / File Photo ASML reported net profit of 391 million euros ( $ 429 million ) , up from 355 million euros in the same period a year ago , but behind analysts ’ consensus estimates of 534 million euros , as polled by Refinitiv .
“ We had a solid order intake , ” said CFO Roger Dassen in a videotaped statement .
“ We had no push - outs , no cancellations ...
So Q2 can be a really good quarter , we should be looking at a 50 % improvement of revenue from Q1 . ”
First quarter sales were 2.44 billion euros , in line with a company profit warning on March 30 that cut first quarter guidance to 2.4 - 2.5 billion euros from a previous 3.1 - 3.3 billion euros .
The company cited delivery delays amid travel restrictions , notably to China .
Dassen said the company could not issue formal full year guidance , but “ if we look at the current demand and if we look at the current shipment plans , that should really enable us to achieve the numbers we ’ve talked about before . ”
In January , the company forecast growth of sales and profits of at least 10 percent in 2020 .
ASML is the dominant maker of lithography machines , giant systems that cost up to 200 million euros each and are used by semiconductor manufacturers such as TSMC , Samsung and Intel to help make the circuitry of computer chips .
TSMC on April 10 reported a major recovery of sales in March , while rival Samsung on April 7 said solid chip sales in the first quarter offset weakness in its other divisions as demand from laptop makers and data centres grew amid a shift to home working .
CFO Dassen said ASML ’s manufacturing sites continue to operate , but installations at customer factories have become more difficult due to issues such as engineers having to wait in quarantine between site visits .
He said that chipmaker customers are telling ASML that end markets present a mixed bag but on the whole fab ( computer chip factory ) operations are “ pretty normal . ”
While sales of some products such as chips for carmakers could be impacted , others such as “ anything related to notebooks , advanced communications systems , but also data warehouses — those products are in very very high demand , ” Dassen said .
And chipmakers are continuing to invest : ASML booked 3.1 billion euros in new orders during the first quarter .
“ The lead time is longer than anything else that they have in the fabs , ” Dassen said .
“ The last thing they would ever cancel is our equipment . ”
( $ 1 = 0.9112 euros )
Reporting by Toby Sterling ; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman and Raju Gopalakrishnan and
Kirsten Donovan

Nifty, Sensex jump on banking, consumer boost even as lockdown extends .
2020-04-15 05:53:56 +00:00 .
BENGALURU ( Reuters ) -
The Indian stock market rose on Wednesday as heavyweight banking and consumer goods shares followed a rise in U.S. markets overnight , even as Asia ’s third - biggest economy entered into an extended lockdown to contain the coronavirus .
A woman walks past the Bombay Stock Exchange ( BSE ) building in Mumbai , India , January 31 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Francis Mascarenhas / Files
The NSE Nifty 50 index rose 2.66 % to 9,233.35 by 0502 GMT , while the benchmark SP BSE Sensex was up 2.68 % at 31,513.43 , as trading resumed after a holiday on Tuesday .
“ Domestic markets are now reacting to movement in the U.S. and Asian markets over the last two days .
We are catching up with global markets , which were up on some optimism that the COVID-19 situation is coming under control , ” said Deepak Jasani , head of research at HDFC Securities in Mumbai .
Sentiment was also supported after the government said on Wednesday it will allow opening up of some industries in rural areas after April 20 to reduce the distress caused to millions of people because of the lockdown .
“ However , there is a possibility of disappointment that could set in later in the session due to the extended lockdown ...
There have been some growth - cut assumptions as well , which will have to sink in at some point , ” Jasani said .
The International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday it expected the global economy to shrink by 3.0 % during 2020 in a coronavirus - driven collapse of activity that will mark the steepest downturn since the Great Depression of the 1930s .
India extended a lockdown on its 1.3 billion people until at least May 3 on Tuesday as total COVID-19 cases exceeded 10,000 .
Meanwhile , corporate India is heading into the March - quarter earnings season , with IT firm Wipro Ltd set to release its results later in the day .
Wipro shares were up 1 % .
Oil - to - retail conglomerate Reliance Industries Ltd was the biggest boost to the indexes , climbing as much as 3.9 % to its highest in more than five weeks .
Private - sector lender ICICI Bank Ltd jumped 5.3 % and while consumer goods giant Hindustan Unilever Ltd rose 4.8 % .
UPL Ltd , a producer of crop protection chemicals , surged 13.4 % to a near one - month top after it said on Tuesday all its factories around the world were in operation , and that it does not see “ significant ” challenges in meeting customer demand .
The stock was the top percentage gainer on the Nifty 50 index .
Aluminium producer Hindalco Industries Ltd jumped as much as 9 % after its arm completed the $ 2.8 billion acquisition of U.S.-based rolled products major Aleris .
Reporting by Chris Thomas in Bengaluru ; editing by Uttaresh .
V

Ex-Trump campaign manager Manafort seeks home confinement, as COVID-19 spreads in prisons .
2020-04-14 18:42:21 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - President Donald Trump ’s former campaign manager , Paul Manafort , became the latest high - profile federal inmate to request release on home confinement due to the coronavirus outbreak , according to an April 13 letter seen by Reuters .
FILE PHOTO :
Former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort , exits the courtroom after his arraignment in New York Supreme Court in New York , U.S. , June 27 , 2019 .
REUTERS / Eduardo Munoz
In the letter , Manafort ’s attorneys ask the Bureau of Prisons director and the warden at FCI Loretto in Pennsylvania to let Manafort serve the remainder of his 7 - 1/2 - year prison term at his home in Virginia , saying he is at a greater risk of complications if he contracts COVID-19 , the potentially lethal respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus .
Manafort , 71 , “ suffers from several pre - existing health conditions , including high blood pressure , liver disease and respiratory ailments , ” they wrote .
“ Mr. Manafort is at a significantly higher risk for serious illness or death . ”
Fourteen federal inmates housed in prison complexes in Louisiana , Ohio and North Carolina have died from COVID-19 , and hundreds of inmates and prison staff have fallen ill .
Attorney General William Barr issued a memo on April 3 saying the Bureau of Prisons is facing an emergency , a declaration that paves the way for the agency to release a wider group of inmates into home confinement .
The bureau previously could release to home confinement only inmates who had already served at least 90 % of their sentence or had no more than six months left to go , but the $ 2 trillion stimulus bill signed by President Donald Trump expanded the pool of potential inmates that could be considered .
Since then , families of federal inmates have told Reuters they have rushed to apply for their loved ones to be considered .
One other high - profile inmate to win a temporary release from custody was convicted celebrity lawyer Michael Avenatti , who was granted home confinement on Friday from a New York City jail by a federal judge in California due to the risks of COVID-19 .
Trump ’s former personal lawyer Michael Cohen and RB singer R. Kelly have had their requests denied , while the rapper Tekashi69 , who has asthma , was released early from his two - year term .
Meanwhile , some federal inmates are being selected for possible home confinement release without even applying .
Robert Banks , an inmate at a federal prison in Pollock , Louisiana , told Reuters in an interview on Friday he just learned his name was added to a list the bureau had prepared for eligible inmates .
“ I was called to the case manager ’s office and she was told her higher - ups were given directives ... to make packages for release for certain inmates , ” he said .
He is still waiting , however , to see if his release comes to fruition .
Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch ; additional reporting by Karen Freifeld in New York ;
editing by Jonathan Oatis

UPDATE 2-Brazil's Intercement delays local bond payment by 90 days .
2020-04-14 18:06:23 +00:00 .
( Updates with creditors approval , credit research report )
By Tatiana Bautzer and Carolina Mandl SAO PAULO , April 14 ( Reuters ) - Creditors of Brazilian cement company Intercement Brasil SA agreed on Tuesday to delay a principal payment of its local bonds scheduled for April 19 by 90 days , it said in a statement .
A creditors assembly agreed to payment of interest on April 19 and deferral of principal payment to July 16 .
Intercement had initially proposed a deferral until July 20 .
Market sources said July 16 was chosen to avoid the perception that local bonds would have a lower priority than international bonds , which have a $ 21.5 million coupon payment expected for July 17 .
In a statement to Reuters , Intercement , which controls Loma Negra Compania Industrial Argentina and operations in Europe and Africa , said the reason for the postponement request is the “ uncertainty related to the economic activity , drop in cement sales and expected contraction of Brazil ’s GDP . ”
Credit research company Lucror Analytics recommended selling Intercement bonds , citing the company ’s “ weak ” liquidity in facing the coronavirus crisis .
In a research note published on March 25 , Lucror said Intercement ’s last reported cash position was less than its short - term debt .
“ Moreover , leverage was high , already above the bond covenant , ” said senior analyst Soummo Mukherjee in the report .
Intercement ’s net debt is 5.5 times its operational earnings before interest , taxes , depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) , above the international bond covenant of 4.5 times , the report said .
It also noted that Intercement ’s financial troubles are driven by the very weak Argentine construction market faced by Loma Negra .
The company has significant maturities from 2020 to 2022 .
( $ 1 = 5.1727 reais ) ( Reporting by Tatiana Bautzer and Carolina Mandl Editing by Alistair Bell and Chizu Nomiyama )

French economy to contract 8% this year as lockdown extended: minister .
2020-04-14 09:37:24 +00:00 .
PARIS ( Reuters ) -
The French government on Tuesday scrapped its days - old economic outlook after President Emmanuel Macron extended a national lockdown , shutting down swathes of the euro zone ’s second - biggest economy .
FILE PHOTO :
French Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire attends a press conference after the weekly cabinet meeting , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , in Paris , France March 25 , 2020 .
Francois Mori / Pool via REUTERS /
File
Photo
After Macron extended the lockdown until at least May 11 , Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said the economy was now expected to contract 8 % this year instead of the 6 % flagged as recently as Thursday .
Since March 17 , France ’s 67 million people have been ordered to stay at home except to buy food , go to work , seek medical care or get some exercise on their own .
The lockdown was originally scheduled to end on Tuesday .
The extension would put additional strain on public finances , blowing the public sector budget deficit out to a post - war record of 9 % of GDP , up from 7.6 % last week , budget minister Gerald Darmanin told France Info .
The government last week more than doubled a package of measures to pull the economy back from the precipice to at least 100 billion euros ( $ 109.32 billion ) - over 4 % of economic output .
“ If we need to do more , then we will do more .
We will be there , ” Le Maire told BFM TV .
The package allows companies to defer billions of euros of tax and payroll charges to cope with the collapse in business and creates a 7 billion euro solidarity fund for the most fragile small companies , which has already been tapped by 900,000 firms ,
With eight million workers on state - subsidised furloughs , the government has increased to budget for that programme to 24 billion euros from 20 billion euros before the extension , Le Maire said .
The government has also pledged to guarantee up to 300 billion euros of business loans from commercial loans to help see companies through the crisis .
Some 150,000 companies have received guarantees worth 22 billion euros and another 40 billion in requests were being treated , the head of the Bpifrance public investment bank , Nicolas Dufourcq , said .
After coming under pressure from the government , French insurers were doubling their contribution to its solidarity fund for small businesses to 400 million euros , Le Maire said .
They were offering 500 million euros in client discounts and would set up an investment fund with 1.5 billion euros for small firms .
While banks and insurers had got the message they needed to step up their support of the economy , Le Maire said he would put pressure on big commercial property owners to do more .
“ Big property owners can and should do more to help those that ca n’t pay their rents , ” Le Maire said .
Reporting by Leigh Thomas ;
Editing by Angus MacSwan

Fashion giant Inditex working at reduced capacity despite loosened Spanish lockdown .
2020-04-13 19:16:06 +00:00 .
MADRID ( Reuters ) -
Employees at global fashion giant Inditex ’s 10 logistics centres in Spain - from where it sends garments to its stores worldwide - returned to work on Monday but only to less than half their normal levels of activity , workers said .
FILE PHOTO :
People leave a Zara store , an Inditex brand , in central Barcelona , Spain , December 13 , 2016 .
REUTERS /
Albert Gea
Meanwhile just three of Inditex ’s 13 Spanish factories were back at work , making medical supplies like scrubs to help fight Spain ’s coronavirus crisis , with no garments being made for now for brands like Zara and Bershka , a union representative said .
Spain loosened on Monday the terms of a strict lockdown brought into force to halt the spread of one of the deadliest outbreaks of the virus worldwide , allowing non - essential workers to return to their jobs after a two - week hiatus .
Cash - rich Inditex said on Monday it would not furlough its some 25,000 shop assistants in Spain for the month of April and would continue to pay their full salaries .
The company had previously said it would consider temporarily laying off store staff in Spain if the country ’s state of emergency extended beyond April 15 .
Staff at the Inditex logistics centres returned to work but at reduced schedules - either working half - days or just two or three shifts a week - to reduce contact between employees , a union representative and a worker said .
Rather than entering the facilities all at once , shift workers had staggered entries and exits and wore masks and gloves while maintaining two - metre distances from colleagues , they said .
Just 15 % of normal activity was maintained at one of Inditex ’s 13 Spanish sewing factories , one worker said , focused on maintenance of machines rather than production of clothes .
Inditex did not respond to a request for comment .
The Massimo Dutti owner does not disclose the proportion of its fashions made in Spain , but it sources 57 % from factories near its Spanish headquarters - mostly in Spain , Portugal , Turkey and Morocco - so it can respond quickly to trends .
Inditex said in its annual results on March 18 that it had temporarily closed 3,785 stores worldwide .
That would leave around half of its shops still open .
Its fashion brands are currently offering discounts on their websites with items like a Zara oversize printed dress reduced by 45 % to 15.99 euros ( $ 17.46 ) and a Massimo Dutti cashmere sweater reduced by 30 % to 69.95 euros as the company seeks to shift unsold stock .
It is offering free delivery for online orders and has extended return times to 30 days after the reopening of stores .
Inditex said at the time of its annual results that it would book a provision of 287 million euros against the outbreak ’s impact on its spring / summer inventory position .
Reporting by Sonya Dowsett ; Editing by Mark Potter and
Jan Harvey

Masks, thermometers for Spaniards gradually going back to work .
2020-04-13 17:42:18 +00:00 .
MADRID ( Reuters ) - A factory in northern Spain that makes gearboxes for wind turbines welcomed back workers on Monday after a two - week lockdown across the country to halt the spread of coronavirus — but only after they ’d shown their temperatures were normal .
FILE PHOTO :
People work on a construction site at the street during a lockdown amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Ronda , southern Spain , April 13 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Jon Nazca / File Photo Elisa Grana , who works at the Siemens Gamesa plant in Lerma , said she also had to answer questions about potential exposure to the virus .
Once inside , “ there are more masks and face screens now ” than before Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez called a halt to all work deemed non - essential on March 29 .
Other sectors stirred too , although Spain ’s main business lobby CEOE warned that many small and medium - sized companies do not have access to the equipment needed to guarantee the safety of their staff .
At Inditex ’s 10 logistics centres , from which the fashion giant sends garments to its stores worldwide , activity was less than half its normal level .
Just three of Inditex ’s 13 Spanish factories are back at work , mostly making scrubs for hospitals .
Many businesses remain closed and people stuck at home as Spain battles one of the worst outbreaks of the novel coronavirus .
The pandemic is expected to cause a severe global recession .
Industrial conglomerate Ferrovial , 16,000 of whose employees kept cleaning and maintaining hospitals and ambulances during the broader shutdown , will reopen its construction business on Tuesday .
It has adjusted shift rotas and provided specific clothing , a spokesman said , “ but ultimately it is the worker ’s responsibility to maintain distance ” .
Oil and gas firm Repsol ’s core business also kept running during the lockdown , but it paused construction of renewable energy plants .
Technicians returning to a wind farm in the northeastern region of Aragon were given masks that must be worn at any time there is another person present , a spokesman said .
Clara Fernandez , spokeswoman for labour union CCOO , said Siemens Gamesa had agreed to carry out antibody tests on all its employees once the kit is available , and had already tested around 100 .
The Lerma plant was one of six reopened on Monday and activity will resume at another six on Tuesday , a company spokeswoman said .
Germany ’s Volkswagen has said it will partially reopen its plant in Spain ’s Navarra region on April 20 and ramp up shifts if the supply chain is working .
It will supply masks and gloves to 4,800 workers producing the Polo and T - Cross models .
But assembly lines at VW - owned SEAT still stand silent .
Restarting was not right “ from the point of view of the health and safety of employees and suppliers as well as dealers , which remain closed ” , a SEAT spokesman said .
Additional reporting by Clara - Laeila Laudette ;
Editing by Andrei Khalip and Catherine Evans

'Rice ATM' feeds Vietnam's poor amid virus lockdown .
2020-04-13 07:46:37 +00:00 .
HO CHI MINH CITY ( Reuters ) -
A Vietnamese entrepreneur in Ho Chi Minh City has invented a 24/7 automatic dispensing machine providing free rice for people out of work following an ongoing nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus .
People line up in front of a 24/7 ' Rice ATM ' , an automatic rice dispensing machine , during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Ho Chi Minh , Vietnam , April 11 , 2020 .
Picture taken April 11 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Yen Duong Vietnam has reported 262 COVID-19 cases , and no deaths so far , but as a result of a 15 - day social distancing programme that began on March 31 many small businesses have been shuttered and thousands of people temporarily laid off from work .
Nguyen Thi Ly ’s husband was among those who have lost their job .
“ This rice ATM has been helpful .
With this one bag of rice , we can have enough for one day , ” said the 34 - year - old mother of three children .
“ Now , we only need other food .
Our neighbors sometimes gave us some leftover food , or we have instant noodles . ”
The machine distributes a 1.5 kg ( 3.3 lb ) bagful of rice from a small silo to waiting workers , many of whom are street sellers or people who earned a living from cash - in - hand jobs like housekeeping or selling lottery tickets .
Hoang Tuan Anh , the businessman behind the idea , had initially donated a batch of smart doorbells to hospitals in Ho Chi Minh City before turning his technological expertise to food distribution .
Similar ‘ rice ATMs ’ have been set up in other big cities like Hanoi , Hue and Danang , according to state media .
Employees monitoring the rice ATM declined to comment , but Anh told state media he wanted people to feel they still had access to food and resources , despite the current economic difficulties they found themselves in .
“ I refer to this machine as a ‘ rice ATM ’ because people can withdraw rice from it , assured that there are still good people out there who want to give them a second chance , ” he said .
While many in the Communist - ruled country can rely on a social safety - net , and the government has introduced a stimulus package designed to help society ’s most vulnerable , some people living on the margin , like Ly and her family , have not received enough support .
“ I read about this rice ATM on the internet .
I came to check it out , and could n’t believe it came out for real .
I really hope the sponsors would keep doing this until the end of the pandemic , ” said Ly , adding that her family ’s biggest problem was now paying their rent .
Reporting by Yen Duong ; Writing by James Pearson ;
Editing by Simon Cameron - Moore

Bangladesh extends coronavirus lockdown, Modi mulls longer restrictions for India .
2020-04-11 07:21:02 +00:00 .
DHAKA / NEW DELHI ( Reuters ) -
In South Asia ’s latest moves to curb the coronavirus pandemic , Bangladesh has extended its nationwide lockdown by 11 days while Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold talks on Saturday with states to decide whether to extend its own stringent restrictions beyond next week .
Central Reserve Police Force ( CRPF ) personnel stitch protective suits at a workshop inside a CRPF camp during a 21 - day nationwide lockdown to slow the spreading of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in New Delhi , India , April 10 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Adnan Abidi
In Bangladesh , where the army has been deployed across the country to enforce social distancing measures , the government late on Friday extended the nationwide lockdown to April 25 as the number of confirmed cases rose to 424 , with 27 deaths .
Meanwhile India ’s 21 - day lockdown ends on Tuesday and several states have urged PM Modi to extend it further , even as concerns have risen that the shutdown has put millions of poor people out of work and forced an exodus of migrant workers from cities to villages .
In signs of growing concern , 81 migrant workers were arrested in India ’s western city of Surat after they started fires and threw stones in protests late on Friday evening , demanding to be allowed to go back to their home areas , police said .
“ The workers are without work because of the lockdown , and are struggling to sustain themselves , ” one police official said .
Indian officials have warned that widespread virus transmissions could be disastrous in a country where millions live in slums and the health system is already overburdened .
The number of cases in India rose to 7,471 on Saturday , with capital city New Delhi and financial hub Mumbai fast emerging as hotspots .
At least two Indian states - Odisha in the east and Punjab in the north - have decided to extend the lockdown until April end .
Officials government figures on the spread of the coronavirus in South Asia are as follows : - India has 7,471 confirmed , including 239 deaths - Pakistan has 4,788 cases , including 71 deaths - Afghanistan has 521 cases , including 15 deaths - Sri Lanka has 190 cases , including 7 deaths - Bangladesh has 424 cases , including 27 deaths - Maldives has 19 cases and no deaths - Nepal has nine cases and no deaths - Bhutan has five cases and no deaths
Additional reporting by Sumit Khanna in Gujarat and Jatindra Dash in Odisha ;
Writing by Aditya Kalra ;
Editing by Kenneth Maxwell

Seattle-area nursing home hit with wrongful death lawsuit over coronavirus death .
2020-04-11 04:13:51 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
A worker stands outside a pop - up tent in the parking lot at Life Care Center of Kirkland , the Seattle - area nursing home which is one of the epicenters of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Kirkland , Washington , U.S. , March 17 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Jason Redmond / File Photo LOS ANGELES ( Reuters ) -
A woman whose mother died of the coronavirus at a Seattle - area nursing home that was ravaged by the COVID-19 outbreak filed a wrongful death lawsuit on Friday against the company that owns the facility .
Debbie de los Angeles , whose mother Twilla Morin , 85 , died on March 4 at the Life Care Center in Kirkland , Washington of COVID-19 sued its parent company , Life Care Centers of America , alleging the company concealed vital facts about the outbreak before her mother died .
It is believed to be the first wrongful death lawsuit against the company , whose facility in Kirkland was the initial epicenter of the COVID-19 outbreak in the United States , and has been linked to at least 35 coronavirus deaths .
Cleveland , Tennessee - based Life Care Centers of America Inc is among the largest players in U.S. nursing home care , with more than 200 senior - living centers in 28 states .
The company said last month that it would take stringent infection - control measures at all its facilities to guard against coronavirus .
De los Angeles accuses Life Care , its parent company , and senior executives at the Kirkland facility of “ failing to disclose material facts ” to relatives and residents at the home , so that her mother would be lulled into staying at the facility “ in an environment , and under the care of individuals and entities , dangerous to her health and safety . ”
Morin died 24 hours after contracting COVID-19 on March 3 .
De los Angeles never got to see or talk to her mother during that time and discovered her mother ’s condition and death through voicemails left by nurses at the care home .
Life Care has always insisted that it did not know a resident at the home had contracted COVID-19 until Feb. 29 , when it immediately informed residents and families .
Tim Killian , a spokesman for Life Care , said in an email to Reuters : “ Our hearts go out to this family and the loss they have suffered during this unprecedented viral outbreak .
We are unable to comment on specific legal cases that are pending , but we wish this and all families peace .
The loss of any of our residents at Life Care Center of Kirkland is felt deeply by us . ”
Brian Mickelsen , de los Angeles ’s attorney , said his client strongly suspects the company knew more about a potential coronavirus outbreak before Feb. 29 .
He said a respiratory illness was sweeping through the home before then , and a month after coronavirus had arrived in Washington state .
“ My client filed a lawsuit to demand answers to important questions , ” Mickelsen said .
Reporting by Tim Reid ; Editing by Daniel
Wallis

Nicaraguan president missing in action for nearly one month and counting .
2020-04-10 01:33:41 +00:00 .
MANAGUA ( Reuters ) -
During Nicaragua ’s devastating civil war in the 1980s , youthful revolutionary Daniel Ortega toured every town in the Central American nation , clad in his green Sandinista uniform .
FILE PHOTO :
Nicaragua 's President Daniel Ortega and Chairman of the board of Grupo LALA Eduardo Tricio take part in the inauguration ceremony of a dairy plant at San Benito , Nicaragua May 7 , 2015 .
REUTERS / Oswaldo Rivas / File Photo
Now in his second stint as president , the 74 - year - old leftist leader has disappeared from public view for nearly a month , raising questions about his health and whereabouts as the world reels from the spread of the coronavirus .
As in 2014 , another time he dropped off the map , his absence has even prompted speculation he may have died .
The government did not respond to a request for comment on the reasons for Ortega ’s absence , his health or whether he is alive .
However , a government official close to Ortega said he was alive , speaking on condition of anonymity .
Over the years , the former guerilla has suffered two heart attacks and developed high cholesterol and other ailments , said the official .
Since then , the president has been increasingly protective of his health , said the source .
Ortega ’s last public appearance was on March 12 , in which he spoke briefly via video from a living room .
“ He has always fled from problems ; no wonder he is absent in the midst of the coronavirus crisis , ” said Dora Maria Tellez , a former minister in Ortega ’s first government in the 1980s who later broke with the president .
Ortega also disappeared for several weeks in 1998 , after his adopted stepdaughter accused him of abuse , which he denied .
During his current absence , Vice President Rosario Murillo , his wife , has spoken publicly every day , fueling speculation that Ortega will eventually emerge to oversee a campaign to defeat the coronavirus .
So far , Nicaragua has not encouraged social distancing or other measures against the virus , even as neighboring Honduras and nearby El Salvador implement tight restrictions .
Nicaragua has registered seven coronavirus cases and one related death , but experts question the numbers because the government has not revealed how many tests have been conducted .
Ortega ’s health has often been a closely guarded secret .
Elected president in 1984 , Ortega was voted out of office after a single five - year term as the economy floundered .
He eventually won re - election and returned to office in 2007 .
After orchestrating a constitutional change to allow for re - elections , his current term is due to end in 2022 .
Reporting by Ismael Lopez , Writing by Daina Beth Solomon

Harvey Weinstein free of coronavirus symptoms - spokesman .
2020-04-10 00:13:58 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - Harvey Weinstein , who is serving a prison sentence for rape , has no symptoms of the coronavirus , his spokesman said on Thursday , more than two weeks after a union official for corrections officers said the former movie producer had tested positive .
FILE PHOTO :
Film producer Harvey Weinstein arrives at New York Criminal Court for his sexual assault trial in the Manhattan borough of New York City , New York , U.S. , February 21 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Jeenah Moon
“ As of now , it ’s been 14 days since reports of concern from people inside the prison , and he has no symptoms and no issues , ” Weinstein spokesman Juda Engelmayer said .
Weinstein , 68 , was sentenced on March 11 for sexually assaulting former production assistant Mimi Haleyi and raping Jessica Mann , a onetime aspiring actress .
Michael Powers , head of the state corrections officers union , said on March 22 that Weinstein had tested positive for the coronavirus , which causes the respiratory illness COVID-19 .
At the time , Powers said Weinstein had been placed in isolation at Wende Correctional Facility , the maximum security prison east of Buffalo , New York , where Weinstein is serving a 23 - year sentence .
Powers said he was concerned for corrections officers , who he said lacked protective equipment .
Powers could not be reached for comment on Thursday .
“ I do n’t know the exact status of his medical condition , ” Arthur Aidala , a lawyer for Weinstein , told Reuters on Thursday .
“ But when I speak with him he sounds fine . ”
In a statement on March 23 , Weinstein ’s defense team would neither confirm nor deny whether Weinstein had tested positive for the coronavirus .
They said statements made about his health had not been authorized by the Department of Corrections and could be a violation of privacy regulations .
State prison officials have said they can not comment on any individual prisoner ’s medical record .
Weinstein was one of Hollywood ’s most powerful producers , known for transforming the independent film industry .
He produced the Academy award winner “ Shakespeare in Love ” and was responsible for other acclaimed films including “ Pulp Fiction , ” “ The English Patient ” and “ Gangs of New York . ”
Following his March sentencing , Weinstein spent time at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan for heart problems .
He arrived in Wende on March 18 from New York City ’s Rikers Island jail .
Weinstein ’s conviction was hailed as a victory for the # MeToo movement against sexual misconduct by powerful men .
More than 100 women , including famous actresses , have accused Weinstein of sexual misconduct stretching back decades .
He has denied the allegations , saying any sex was consensual .
Weinstein faces separate sexual assault charges in Los Angeles .
Imran Ansari , another of Weinstein ’s lawyers , on Thursday declined to comment on Weinstein ’s coronavirus status , but said Weinstein remains in the prison ’s medical unit for treatment of various conditions he was suffering from prior to his arrival at Wende .
“ He ’s not receiving any special perks or treatment , ” Ansari said .
Reporting by Karen Freifeld ; Editing by Noeleen Walder and Leslie Adler

UPDATE 4-Italian yields falls as EU finance ministers meet again on rescue package .
2020-04-09 15:30:30 +00:00 .
( There will be no London - based European bond market report on Friday April 10 and Monday April 13 due to UK public holidays . )
* Euro zone periphery govt bond yields
tmsnrt.rs/2ii2Bqr ( Adds Fed chair 's comments , updates prices )
By Olga Cotaga LONDON , April 9 ( Reuters ) - Italian government bond yields fell on Thursday after European Union budget hawk Austria said it was willing to compromise to reach a deal on the bloc ’s response to the coronavirus crisis .
However , euro bonds remain out of the question , Finance Minister Gernot Bluemel said on Thursday .
Earlier , Italian two - year BTP yields rose to a three - week high as investors waited to see whether European finance ministers would be able to agree on an economic rescue package .
Yields across core euro zone bond markets were down by 3 to 6 basis points .
The spread of the novel coronavirus has shut down most European economies , prompting officials to look for creative ways to revive growth , including issuing commonly shared debt known as “ coronabonds ” .
But EU ministers on Wednesday failed to agree on a rescue package to help economies recover from the impact of the coronavirus outbreak because of a feud between Italy and the Netherlands .
They will give it another go on Thursday , they said .
“ While we do anticipate an agreement will be reached as regards the use of the ESM ( European Stability Mechanism ) and its existing funding tools and capacity , we also expect this will fall short of what Italy and Spain would like to see tabled , ” said Richard McGuire , head of rates strategy at Rabobank .
The annual cost to Germany of jointly issuing debt with other euro zone states should amount to a maximum of around 0.36 % of economic output , research by U.S. bank Jefferies showed on Wednesday , in one of the first cost estimates of the hotly disputed project .
Germany , together with the Netherlands , failed to agree with the southern countries on which conditions coronabonds would be issued , believing it would lead to wealthier countries underwriting the debt of southern peers .
Diplomatic sources and officials said the feud was blocking progress on half a trillion euros worth of aid .
The Italian 2 - year government bond yield was last down 3 bps at 0.66 % , having earlier risen more than 12 bps to 0.813 % , its highest since March 19 .
It remained way below the level it skyrocketed to on March 17 when it rose above 1.5 % .
The 10 - year Italian yield was down 5 bps at 1.601 % , with its German and Dutch equivalents down 4 bps at -0.35 % and -0.076 % respectively .
In France and Belgium 10 - year yields fell by 5 and 6 bps . .
Italian debt was also supported by comments by Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell in the afternoon session .
The U.S. central bank will continue to use all the tools at its disposal until the U.S. economy begins to fully rebound from the harm caused by the novel coronavirus outbreak , Powell said .
Reporting by Olga Cotaga ;
Editing by Angus MacSwan , Nick Macfie , Kirsten Donovan and Giles Elgood

India's inflation likely fell to a four-month low in March: Reuters poll .
2020-04-09 04:16:30 +00:00 .
BENGALURU ( Reuters ) - India ’s retail inflation is expected to have dropped to a four - month low in March on softer food and fuel prices and as already slowing demand likely plummeted due to a nationwide lockdown towards the end of the month , a Reuters poll found .
FILE PHOTO :
A cashier checks Indian rupee notes inside a room at a fuel station in Ahmedabad , India , September 20 , 2018 .
REUTERS /
Amit Dave / File Photo Price pressures will probably ease further this month as economic activity ground to a halt after Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a 21 - day lockdown from March 25 in an attempt to curb the spread of the coronavirus .
“ Inflation will continue to edge lower .
Perhaps , at a faster rate than we had earlier expected on account of a slowdown in activity and decline in food inflation spikes , ” said Sakshi Gupta , senior India economist at HDFC Bank .
Inflation is likely to have eased to 5.93 % last month from 6.58 % in February , the April 7 - 8 poll of over 40 economists showed .
If realized , it would be the lowest since November but still closer to the higher end of the Reserve Bank of India ’s target band of 2 - 6 % .
Forecasts in the poll ranged between 3.90 % and 7.00 % .
“ We expect a continued and sizeable drop in food prices .
In addition , core inflation also fell with social distancing impacting the transport , communication and recreational component of the service sector , ” said Kunal Kundu , India economist at Societe Generale .
“ Falling crude prices and the pass - through - though offset by the government using the opportunity to raise taxes on petrol and diesel - should also help keep headline inflation in check . ”
A separate Reuters poll of economists showed Asia ’s third - largest economy likely expanded at its slowest pace in eight years in the quarter ending March and would slow further this quarter .
[ ECILT / IN ]
To combat the slowdown , the government announced a 1.7 trillion rupees ( $ 22.6 billion ) stimulus plan , making direct cash transfers and implementing food security measures to give relief to millions of poor hit by the lockdown .
The central bank , for its part , cut interest rates by 75 basis points in an emergency meeting on March 27 and has taken steps to shore up liquidity , in line with most major central banks around the world .
Softer inflation would give the RBI reason to cut borrowing costs further but some economists do not expect that to be the driver of policy for now .
“ We believe inflation is neither a concern nor the focus for the RBI currently .
It will continue to look past inflation for the time being and use policy tools , conventional as well as unconventional , in its response to the current crisis , ” said Rini Sen , India economist at ANZ .
Polling by
Richa Rebello , Shaloo Shrivastava and Khushboo Mittal ; Editing by
Emelia Sithole - Matarise

At-home COVID-19 deaths may be significantly undercounted in New York City .
2020-04-08 00:06:10 +00:00 .
NEW YORK ( Reuters ) -
The daily tally of New York City residents who died at home with coronavirus - like symptoms exploded from 45 on March 20 to 241 on April 5 , according to Fire Department of New York data - suggesting the city may be significantly undercounting COVID-19 deaths .
FILE PHOTO :
A woman wearing a protective mask is seen at Central Park during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in New York City , U.S. , April 4 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Jeenah Moon Asked about the fire department numbers at a press conference Tuesday , New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio acknowledged that deaths at home have n’t been fully accounted for .
“ It ’s right to assume the vast majority are coronavirus related , ” he said .
“ And that makes it even more sober in the sense of how many people we are losing , how many families are suffering , how real this crisis is . ”
The fire department data are based on information collected during emergency calls involving cardiac or respiratory arrest , with fever and cough .
Those are symptoms characteristic of a severe case of COVID-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus .
Although those symptoms also could fit diseases such as influenza , the steep rise coincides with the surge in COVID-19 cases in New York City , the epicenter of the U.S. coronavirus epidemic .
The data raise questions about the city ’s official tally indicating coronavirus deaths had leveled off in recent days ( before rising again Tuesday ) .
The official daily death count had stayed relatively flat , going from 309 on from March 31 to 290 on April 5 , according the health department ’s website .
During that same period , according to the fire department data , the number of daily deaths at home among people with COVID-19 - like symptoms rose from 167 to 241 .
A spokesman for the city Department of Health and Mental Hygiene , which certifies findings on causes of death , said the official death count only includes those who had a test confirming they were infected with the virus .
The spokesman did not know what portion of people who died at home had been tested but said the department and the city Office of Chief Medical Examiner are working on counting the cases in which the deceased did not have a test .
The fire department would not comment on the significance of its figures , which first were reported on the website gothamist.com .
According to the data , a total of 2,192 at - home deaths were reported from March 20 to April 5 .
The city death count as of that day , including hundreds of deaths among the nearly 16,000 hospitalized for the disease , was about 2,500 .
It now exceeds 3,200 .
Calls during the coronavirus outbreak in New York are swamping 911 emergency responders , the data show .
Between March 20 and April 5 , the number of Covid-19 - like cases , including patients who survived , tripled , from 94 to 322 , according to fire department data .
The percentage of calls in which paramedics could not save the person rose from 48 % percent to 75 % .
“ It ’s never - ending , ” said a fire department paramedic lieutenant who asked not to be identified .
“ And it ’s getting worse each day . ”
Before the coronavirus outbreak , the lieutenant said , the five boroughs averaged 10 to 20 calls a day that resulted in death .
Maurice Tamman reported from New York City ;
Editing by Julie Marquis

Treasury liquidity on the mend, but without Fed remains fragile .
2020-04-07 20:44:18 +00:00 .
NEW YORK / BOSTON , April 7 ( Reuters ) - Some measures of liquidity in the $ 17 trillion U.S. Treasury market are almost back to normal , thanks to the Federal Reserve ’s giant purchases , after drying up two weeks ago at the height of the coronavirus panic , but trading conditions remain challenging .
Without the Fed ’s intervention , analysts were concerned that liquidity would break down and market volatility would spike again .
Through myriad programs , the Fed has bought more than $ 1 trillion in U.S. Treasuries over the last three weeks .
“ The market is still very sensitive to how much the Fed is going to buy , whether now or the next couple of weeks , ” said Gennadiy Goldberg , senior rates strategist at TD Securities in New York .
“ If the Fed were to come in and cut the purchase sizes significantly , then the market would once again get pretty unstable .
It ’s a very tenuous type of improvement , ” he added .
A key indicator that investors track is the liquidity premium of on - the - run Treasuries , or new issues , compared with off - the - runs , which are older Treasuries representing the majority of total outstanding debt , but make up only about 25 % of daily trading volume .
That premium has declined since the Fed started buying U.S. government debt , analysts said .
On - the - run Treasuries typically command a premium over off - the - runs in times of market stress .
For instance , Barclays in a research note last month said at the peak of the market panic a few weeks ago , on - the - run 30 - year bonds were trading 5 basis points higher compared to their older 30 - year counterparts even though they have not typically commanded much liquidity premium in the past .
Jim Vogel , senior rates strategist at FHN Financial in Memphis , Tennessee , said he agreed that off - the - run liquidity was better , but is not sure whether it is “ enough liquidity . ”
“ The Fed continues to absorb an awful lot of short Treasury coupons , which probably means they think it ’s all cheap and they need to continue to clean up that market in order to firm the base for more Treasury issuance and continue to improve trading conditions , ” he said .
The improvement in liquidity has also been evident in bid - ask spreads on certain securities .
These had widened to as much as 200 basis points on benchmark U.S. 10 - year Treasury notes on March 20 .
That spread narrowed to 6 basis points , or less , the following week , according to Refinitiv data .
As of Tuesday , bid - asks were largely 3 basis points or fewer , a typical level before the crisis .
Though there were some points where the spread spiked higher , analysts said the figures reflected more market participants , making it easier for dealers to trade and hedge risk .
That said , analysts said diminishing two - way or buy - and - sell flows have become a problem for U.S. Treasuries across the curve .
FHN ’s Vogel said volume was down 40 % from the peak a few weeks ago as institutional investors looked to more attractive asset classes such as new investment - grade corporate issuances .
High frequency trading activity , which tends to constitute a significant fraction of overall active flows when there is sufficient liquidity , was also still comfortably below recent historical averages , according to JPMorgan in its latest research note .
“ When interest rate volatility is high , as it is now , we tend to see a more concerted pullback in HFT activity , which is consistent with current behavior , ” the U.S. bank said .
( Reporting by Gertrude Chavez - Dreyfuss in New York and Ross Kerber in Boston ;
Editing by Alden Bentley and Leslie Adler )

Norway to ease curbs 'little by little' after coronavirus lockdown - PM .
2020-04-07 15:15:47 +00:00 .
OSLO ( Reuters ) - Norway , one of the first European countries to curb activities to rein in the coronavirus , will relax restrictions “ little by little ” , the prime minister said on Tuesday .
FILE PHOTO :
Norway 's Prime Minister Erna Solberg attends a panel during the annual Munich Security Conference in Munich , Germany February 14 , 2020 .
REUTERS/ Andreas Gebert / File Photo
The Nordic country ’s lockdown sent the economy into a tailspin and triggered hundreds of thousands of layoffs .
“ Together we have taken control of the virus , therefore we can open up society little by little , ” Erna Solberg told a news conference .
On Monday , her health minister said the epidemic was “ under control ” in Norway , pointing to the low rate of transmission .
Current restrictions , which are in place until April 13 , include the closure of nurseries and schools , refusing entry to foreigners who do not live and work in Norway and forbidding people to go to their mountain cabins if they have one .
Kindergartens will reopen between April 20 and 27 ; schools from the first grade to the fourth grade will reopen from April 27 ; and Norwegians can go to their chalets from April 20 .
At the same time , working from home must continue and Norwegians must get used to measures against contamination “ for a long time ” , Solberg said .
In addition , major sports and cultural events such as festivals would be banned until June 15 .
Some 5,863 people had tested positive for the coronavirus as of Tuesday , up from 5,755 reported on Monday , the Norwegian Institute of Public Health said .
Some 69 people have died of the disease so far .
Norway ’s rate of unemployment rose to 15.4 % on Tuesday , the Labour and Welfare Agency ( NAV ) said , the highest level on record , up from 14.7 % on March 31 , as the economy ground to a halt .
Norway is the latest country to ease some of its restrictions .
Fellow Nordic nation Denmark , which followed a similarly tough line to Norway , announced late on Monday it would reopen day care centres and schools on April 15 as a first step to gradually relaxing its three - week lockdown .
Reporting by Gwladys Fouche , editing by Victoria Klesty and Nick Macfie

JPMorgan CEO Dimon calls 'bad recession', mulls suspending 2020 dividend .
2020-04-06 14:10:16 +00:00 .
( Reuters ) - JPMorgan Chase
Co ’s top boss , Jamie Dimon ( JPM.N ) , on Monday said he sees a “ bad recession ” in 2020 , and that the largest U.S. bank could suspend its dividend if the coronavirus crisis deepens .
Jamie Dimon , chairman CEO of JP Morgan Chase Co. , speaks during the Bloomberg Global Business Forum in New York City , New York , U.S. , September 25 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Shannon Stapleton Dimon , widely regarded as the face of the U.S. banking sector , is the most prominent voice on Wall Street so far to project that the economic cost of the coronavirus will not evaporate quickly , and said the bank ’s earnings will be down “ meaningfully in 2020 . ”
But , Dimon said , even in the worst case scenario , the bank is strong and will continue lending to customers and will not need any relief from the federal government .
JPMorgan ’s stock was up 5 % to $ 84.05 in morning trading .
JPMorgan could look at suspending dividends if gross domestic product were to fall by as much as 35 % in the second quarter and the unemployment rate were to rise further to 14 % in the fourth quarter of the year , the chief executive officer wrote in his annual letter to shareholders .
Questions are mounting about whether big U.S. banks will have to cut dividends later this year as the coronavirus crisis puts a record portion of Americans out of work , making it difficult for borrowers to pay back loans .
“ If the board suspended the dividend , it would be out of extreme prudence and based upon continued uncertainty over what the next few years will bring , ” Dimon said .
Dimon highlighted some challenges seen at the bank ’s call centers , where a handful of staff have fallen ill , customer call volumes are at record highs and local restrictions have effectively shuttered some offices .
For customers hurt by the crisis , the bank is offering a 90 - day grace period to make mortgage and auto loan payments , removing minimum payment requirements on credit cards , and waiving any late fees for those types of accounts , according to the letter .
Dimon also said that the vast majority of the bank ’s 16,850 ATMs were “ well - stocked and still functioning ” to provide cash for customers .
RELIEF MEASURES
The bank said it had extended about $ 950 million in new loans to small businesses over the last 60 days and would still extend credit to small businesses .
“ In both our central case scenario for 2020 results and in our extremely adverse scenario , we are lending – currently or plan to do so – an additional $ 150 billion for our clients ’ needs , ” Dimon said .
Even with that lending , Dimon wrote JPMorgan currently has over $ 500 billion in total liquid assets and $ 300 billion in incremental borrowing capacity from the Federal Reserve and Federal Home Loan Banks .
FILE PHOTO :
A J.P. Morgan logo is seen in New York City , U.S. , January 10 , 2017 .
REUTERS /
Stephanie Keith Dimon did not pass up the opportunity to suggest regulatory and fiscal policy reform , as he has often done in past annual letters .
“ After the crisis subsides ( and it will ) , our country should thoroughly review all aspects of our preparedness and response .
And we should use the opportunity to closely review the economic response and determine whether any additional regulatory changes are warranted to improve our financial and economic system .
There will be a time and place for that – but not now . ”
JPMorgan will also nominate former International Business Machines Corp ( IBM.N ) CEO Virginia “ Ginni ” Rometty for election to its board .
Rometty will become the executive chairman of IBM on April 6 .
Reporting by Anirban Sen in Bangalore ; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila , Bernard Orr and Steve Orlofsky

UPDATE 3-Spain's pace of coronavirus deaths slows, easing of lockdown pondered .
2020-04-06 13:48:32 +00:00 .
MADRID ( Reuters ) - Spain ’s pace of new coronavirus deaths slowed for the fourth day on Monday as the government contemplated a gradual easing of a lockdown in place since mid - March in the country with the second highest death toll from the global pandemic .
FILE PHOTO :
A man speaks on his phone as he walks past the Royal Palace during lockdown , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Madrid , Spain April 5 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Juan Medina
As with worst - hit Italy , data in Spain is giving cause for hope the peak has passed .
On Monday , it reported 637 fatalities in the previous 24 hours - a 5 % increase in total and less than half the pace recorded a week earlier .
“ The pandemic ’s growth rate is slowing down in almost every region , ” Maria Jose Sierra , deputy head of Spain ’s health emergency committee , said at a virtual news conference .
Though starting to hope for an end to their torment , Spaniards were also venting frustration on social media at the lengthy stay - at - home .
“ I ’d love to be in a bar , listening to good music and accompanied by many litres of beer - but no , I ’m lying in bed and already sick of this confinement , ” tweeted Robert from Zaragoza .
“ I only hope at some point we return to normality . ”
One mother , Sandra Eva , said her four - year - old girl was upset at missing Easter traditions .
“ She asks me why we ca n’t go out to watch the # Easter processions .
That it ’s not fair .
That she wants to see them .
And that she ’s tired of the # coronavirus , ” she tweeted .
“ PREPARING FOR DE - ESCALATION ”
Officials said for restrictions to be lifted , testing had to be widened beyond those suspected of having the COVID-19 disease and health workers , so as to find carriers who may have no symptoms or only very mild symptoms .
“ We are preparing ourselves for de - escalation for which it is important to know who is contaminated to be able to gradually lift Spanish citizens ’ lockdown , ” Foreign Minister Arancha Gonzalez told TV station Antena 3 .
Spanish companies are manufacturing 240,000 test kits per week and are boosting capacity , the foreign minister said , while equipment is also being bought from abroad .
Spain has been in lockdown since March 14 , with streets and famous tourist sites eerily silent .
Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said at the weekend that would remain in place until April 26 .
However , he opened the door to easing some restrictions , such as keeping all non - essential workers at home , after Easter .
FILE PHOTO :
A man walks a dog along Segovia street during lockdown , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , in Madrid , Spain April 5 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Juan Medina Monday ’s data showed Spain ’s total cases up to 135,032 , the highest in Europe and second in the world after the United States .
However , in another positive sign , checkpoints were lifted in Igualada and three other hard - hit towns in the northeastern Catalonia region , where there have been more than 100 deaths , the health ministry said .
Sierra said more than 40,000 Spaniards had been discharged from hospital .
Some 19,400 health workers had caught the disease , with the majority of them going into self - isolation at home and about 20 percent now better , she said .
Additional reporting by Inti Landauro and Joan Faus ; Writing by Andrew Cawthorne ;
Editing by Andrei Khalip

CVS to launch two new drive-through COVID-19 testing sites .
2020-04-06 11:36:34 +00:00 .
April 6 ( Reuters ) - CVS Health Corp said that it will launch two new drive - through COVID-19 testing sites in Georgia and Rhode Island on Monday using new , faster tests than had previously been available , with up to four more locations to follow .
The company said both drive - through testing sites will use testing equipment made by Abbott Laboratories that can deliver results within minutes .
It expects to be able to perform around 1,000 tests per day at each site .
“ We want to get some experience under our belt with these sites and understand exactly sort of what the volume looks like .
And we ’ll also be improving the logistics associated with each of the sites over time , ” CVS Chief Medical Officer Troy Brennan said in an interview .
Brennan said the company expects to announce a third testing site in a different state on Tuesday and could launch up to three more sites afterward .
CVS was part of a group of U.S. retailers that pledged at a White House news conference on March 13 to open the testing sites in their parking lots .
CVS has only opened one drive - through testing site , in the parking lot of a CVS Pharmacy in Shrewsbury , Massachusetts .
Brennan said CVS was basically “ shutting down that other model ” of a single lane drive - through in the parking lot of one of its stores .
A CVS spokeswoman said the Shrewsbury site is still operational , but the company is evaluating how and when to transition to this new model in Massachusetts .
The new testing sites will not be located in CVS parking lots .
Instead , one will be located at Georgia Tech university and the other will be in the parking lot of a casino in Rhode Island .
CVS will supply personnel from its MinuteClinic unit to oversee the testing .
The states will provide security and protective equipment .
The testing is currently available at no cost to patients , CVS said .
“ Right now , the federal government ’s paying for these tests and will do so for a specific duration of time , ” Brennan said .
“ Then we ’ll develop the capability to bill insurance . ”
Patients will need to pre - register in advance online at CVS.com in order to schedule a same - day time slot for testing , the company said .
Testing at the sites is for eligible individuals who meet criteria established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) , in addition to state residency and age guidelines .
( Reporting by Michael Erman Editing by Nick Zieminski )

India's March services activity contracts amid coronavirus disruptions .
2020-04-06 05:29:58 +00:00 .
BENGALURU ( Reuters ) - India ’s dominant services sector , the lifeblood for economic growth and jobs , contracted in March as new business and export demand fell sharply as the coronavirus pandemic wreaked havoc globally , a private survey showed .
FILE PHOTO :
A view of an empty shopping mall is seen after Gujarat state government banned public gatherings to avoid the spreading of the coronavirus , in Ahmedabad , March 16 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Amit Dave / File Photo Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered India ’s 1.3 billion people to stay home and shut shops and business selling non - essential goods for 21 days from March 25 to try and contain the virus spreading , suggesting April ’s downturn will be more severe .
The Nikkei / IHS Markit Services Purchasing Managers ’ Index INPMIS = ECI fell sharply to a five - month low of 49.3 in March from February ’s seven - year high of 57.5 , below the 50 - mark separating growth from contraction for the first time since October .
“ Strong growth momentum seen so far in 2019 was halted in March as demand conditions deteriorated , particularly overseas , leading to a reduction in business activity , ” Joe Hayes , economist at IHS Markit , said in a release .
That mirrors a sharp deceleration in global activity as the coronavirus pandemic paralyzes economies , with evidence mounting that the world is sliding into recession .
A manufacturing survey last week showed a cooling in growth which combined with a contracting services sector dragged the composite PMI to a five - month low of 50.6 last month .
The outlook looks grim , with an index tracking overall demand for services falling to 48.5 in March , a 25 - month low .
Adding to concerns , new export business - a proxy of foreign demand - fell at its fastest rate since the sub - index was introduced in September 2014 .
A strong service sector is crucial for Indian growth as it contributes over 60 % to the country ’s gross domestic product .
If the lockdown is extended , economists say it could drag Asia ’s third - largest economy to either no growth or a contraction this quarter .
“ Clearly the worse is yet to come as nationwide store closures and prohibitions to leave the house will weigh heavily on the services economy , as has been seen elsewhere in the world .
Pressure now fully lies on the government to combat the economic challenges the lockdown will cause , ” Hayes added .
Like their peers elsewhre , policymakers in India have stepped up fiscal and monetary stimulus to mitigate the economic fallout from the health crisis .
Late last month , the Reserve Bank of India slashed interest rates by 75 basis points to 4.40 % in an emergency move and the government announced a 1.7 trillion rupee ( $ 22.4 billion ) stimulus .
Despite the support measures , firms appear unconvinced the services sector will recover from the slump anytime soon , the survey showed .
Optimism about the next 12 months was the lowest in five months , leading services firms to reduce their workforce and pushing the employment sub - index to its lowest since August 2017 .
FILE PHOTO :
A deserted view of a market area during the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in New Delhi , March 25 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Adnan Abidi / File Photo
The Modi government is already under pressure amid massive job cuts by smaller businesses due to the lockdown .
On the price front , growth in both input costs and prices charged weakened in March , suggesting retail inflation could slow further and give the RBI more scope to cut interest rates further .
( $ 1 = 75.9450 Indian rupees )
Reporting by Vivek Mishra ;
Editing by Kim Coghill

