Coronavirus latest: at a glance .
2020-04-04 17:23:30 +00:00 .
The Spanish prime minister , Pedro Sanchez , is set to ask parliament to extend lockdown restrictions by more than two weeks .
Most Spanish people have been in lockdown for three weeks so far , with the measures expected to be extended until 26 April .
Spain has the second highest death toll in the world , at 11,744 , after Italy , which has 14,681 .
The number of deaths from the coronavirus in Italy has passed 15,000 .
On Saturday , the country registered 681 deaths from Covid-19 , 86 less than Friday , bringing the total to 15,362 – the highest death toll in the world .
A thousand ventilators will arrive in New York ’s JFK airport from China on Saturday , New York governor Andrew Cuomo has said .
He thanked the country in a press conference , saying it would make a significant difference .
In the UK , the government ’s daily coronavirus briefing revealed that 300 ventilators had arrived in Britain from China on Saturday .
The number of confirmed cases in Germany has increased by 6,082 in the last 24 hours , a slight decrease on the day before .
The reduction , down from 6,174 , has prompted “ cautious hope ” that the infection is beginning to level off .
Confirmed cases of coronavirus in France have exceeded those in China , reaching 83,031 .
China , where the outbreak originated , has recorded 82,543 cases , according to the Johns Hopkins university tracker .
The United Arab Emirates has requested to postpone the start of the Expo 2020 Dubai until October 2021 , as a result of the coronavirus pandemic .
The six - month event was due to begin on 20 October this year .
In Portugal , the number of confirmed cases has reached 10,524 , closely followed by South Korea at 10,156 .
Portugal has so far seen 266 deaths , and South Korea 177 , according to the Johns Hopkins university tracker .

Tiger Roll avatar foiled as Potters Corner triumphs in Virtual Grand National .
2020-04-04 17:13:37 +00:00 .
Potters Corner ‘ won ’ the Virtual Grand National , a computer simulation broadcast by ITV on Saturday evening in place of the race itself , which has been abandoned along with the rest of the current sporting programme in Britain because of the coronavirus crisis .
Tiger Roll , who would have been seeking his third consecutive Grand National success if this year ’s race had gone ahead , was placed fourth by ITV ’s computer .
The outcome must count as a bittersweet moment for the trainer Christian Williams , who had nursed serious hopes for Potters Corner at Aintree after he won the Welsh Grand National in December .
Like all other jumps horses , Potters Corner will not see real action until at least July , jump racing having been suspended until then by the sport ’s ruling body .
ITV hailed the outcome as a great moment for the young jockey Jack Tudor , who , in reality , would have needed to ride a few more winners after racing was suspended in mid - March to qualify for a place in this National .
Walk In The Mill was second and Any Second Now third .
Earlier , Manifesto was pipped close home by Red Rum in ITV ’s ‘ Race of Champions ’ , contested by past Grand National winners , some from the 19th century .
The real Grand National was cancelled , along with the rest of the traditional three days of racing at Aintree , on 16 March , when the Jockey Club decided it could not hope to stage the event in light of government advice against non - essential travel and social contact .
Until then , it had still seemed possible to stage the race behind closed doors , but all horse racing was brought to a halt the following day .
While a computerised Grand National is a poor substitute for the real thing , the enormous effort at accuracy made by its programmers has rewarded the Virtual National with some quite prescient results in the past three years .
Cause Of Causes , the first ‘ virtual ’ winner in 2017 , was actually second in the race itself the next day , while the computer accurately predicted Tiger Roll ’s first success the next year .
Rathvinden , the virtual winner of 2019 , then finished third in the real thing .
Betting was allowed on the virtual race , with punters limited to £ 10 stakes , while bookmakers agreed to offer the same set of odds as each other and promised to pass any profit to NHS Charities Together , the umbrella organisation for more than 140 NHS charities .
Meanwhile , the Jockey Club , which owns and runs Aintree racecourse , said it would donate 10,000 tickets to the first day of next year ’s Grand National meeting to NHS and social care workers across Merseyside .
The fixture will be renamed Liverpool ’s NHS Day .

Are mortgage payment holidays really a good idea? | Patrick Collinson .
2020-04-04 07:08:47 +00:00 .
About 1 million mortgage holders have applied for a payment holiday in the past fortnight , according to industry sources .
Should you do so , too ?
1 .
It ’s not free money .
But it ’s very cheap .
Let ’s be clear that you still have to pay for your holiday , the banks are not just writing off the money .
They add whatever you did n’t pay to your total mortgage , and when the three months is up your repayments go up .
But with interest rates so low , it makes surprisingly little difference .
For example , using Moneyed.co.uk ’s mortgage calculator , a £ 200,000 mortgage taken out in May 2018 at a 2.5 % rate costs £ 897 a month .
If you take the three - month holiday , afterwards the cost will rise to £ 910 a month .
“ If the choice is between really struggling or taking the mortgage holiday , then the additional cost further down the line is actually quite small beer , ” says broker Ray Boulger of John Charcol .
2 .
It wo n’t hit your credit record .
Experian , Equifax and the other agencies have agreed an emergency payment freeze , to ensure your current credit score is protected for the duration of an agreed payment holiday .
3 .
The banks have to offer it .
Before coronavirus , banks were under no obligation to even have payment holiday processes in place .
Now they do , and most will offer it – although not to everybody .
They know from your original mortgage application what your job and pay is , and may reject you if you are still earning .
One broker told me this week a doctor and his partner ( also a medic ) were refused a payment holiday – because the bank said they were both evidently in work and not furloughed .
4 .
You can still get a rollover deal .
You certainly wo n’t be able to scan the market for a great deal at the end of your fixed - rate term .
But the bank should offer you a product transfer to its other existing fixed deals .
But do n’t automatically rush to get a payment holiday .
1 .
It ’s too soon .
Mortgage brokers report that people are panicking and doing it too early .
If , say , your partner is still receiving an income , and your usual outgoings are down , it makes sense to defer the payment holiday until you really need it .
2 .
Just stopping your direct debit is a disaster .
Some mortgage holders , frustrated at not being able to get through to their banks , are just halting their monthly payment .
Do n’t do that : it will be a disaster for your credit record .
3 .
If you have only a short term left on the mortgage , it will cost you a lot .
The maths work against you in terms of repaying the holiday if you only have a few years left on the loan ; your monthly costs will shoot up after the three months .
4 .
You could switch to interest - only instead .
Barclays is among the banks saying why not shift to interest - only instead for 12 months .
Switching a £ 200,000 loan to interest only cuts the cost from £ 897 a month to £ 417 , and the benefit lasts for a year .

Coronavirus latest: at a glance .
2020-04-04 06:50:59 +00:00 .
People across China paused for three minutes on Saturday morning to remember the more than 3,000 patients and medical workers who have died during the coronavirus outbreak .
Citizens stood with heads bowed , while cars , trains and ships sounded their horns , and air - raid sirens rang out .
Among the 14 health workers and police declared to be remembered was Li Wenliang , the doctor who was reprimanded for “ spreading rumours ” before being exonerated .
The country reported 19 new cases on Friday , most of which were linked to foreign travel , and more than 1,030 patients who are asymptomatic are under medical observation .
World Bank Group president David Malpass said the rapidly spreading pandemic was expected to cause a “ major global recession ” that would likely hit the poorest and most vulnerable countries the hardest .
He echoed comments by the IMF ’s managing director , Kristalina Georgieva , who called on advanced economies to step up their efforts to help emerging markets and developing countries survive the economic and health impacts .
“ This is a crisis like no other , ” she said .
“ We have witnessed the world economy coming to a standstill .
We are now in recession .
It is way worse than the global financial crisis ” of 2008 .
Health officials in the US advised Americans to cover their faces when outside .
But President Donald Trump has undermined the guidance , saying he ca n’t see himself wearing one when he greets “ presidents , prime ministers , dictators , kings , queens ” .
Melania Trump later urged everyone to take the official advice seriously .
It was confirmed that 684 more people have died in UK hospitals , bringing the total to 3,605 and making the 24 hours to 5 pm on Thursday ( BST ) the deadliest since the outbreak began .
The country ’s Department of Health and Social Care says 173,784 people have been tested ; of whom 38,168 were positive .
US attorney general William Barr has issued an emergency order for the release of more federal inmates into home confinement , warning that the federal Bureau of Prisons ( BOP ) is facing emergency conditions .
Barr has given priority to vulnerable inmates housed in federal prisons that have been hardest hit by Covid-19 , including facilities such as Oakdale in Louisiana , Elkton in Ohio and Danbury in Connecticut , where inmates have died .
The BOP said on Friday 91 inmates and 50 staff in its 122 institutions had fallen ill , though reports suggest the number of those affected is much higher .
The Falkland Islands government confirmed the territory ’s first case .
The patient has been hospitalised since 31 March and developed a range of Covid-19 symptoms , tested positive for the virus , and was now in a stable condition in isolation .
Police have detained thousands across Central America for violating rules put in place by their governments to curb coronavirus transmission .
Honduran authorities said about 2,250 people had been arrested for violating the curfew imposed since mid - March while Guatemalan authorities said 5,705 people had been detained for leaving their homes without justification .
In Panama , more than 5,000 people have been detained in recent weeks for violating curfew rules ; another 424 people have been held for not complying with recent rules that limit men and women leaving the house on alternate days .
Meanwhile , in El Salvador , 712 people have been detained for failing to comply with the mandatory home quarantine decreed by President Nayib Bukele , and have been taken to containment centres .

Tim Dowling: how can we be down to one bottle of wine? .
2020-04-04 05:15:47 +00:00 .
Day Whatever : as a regular part of my lockdown routine , I now set aside 30 minutes each day to consider the possibility that I have coronavirus .
This involves feeling my forehead with the back of my hand while swallowing repeatedly to see if it hurts or not .
They say the virus can cause symptoms so mild you might not even notice you have it .
I think : I would notice .
Two weeks ago I was looking in horror at TV footage of people streaming into Richmond Park , and thinking : I hope you ca n’t see my car in that .
Yes , I was there .
But we did n’t go to the park in order to join a mass infection gathering , and I do n’t think anyone else did , either .
We went to Richmond Park because it ’s huge .
It ’s unfortunate that thousands of people had the same idea .
Since then I have not ventured beyond my front gate .
My wife leaves the house early every morning to walk the dog in some undisclosed location , but I do n’t go along .
She still manages about 10,000 steps a day during the crisis .
I do about 250 , and that ’s only because I forget where I put things .
It is a warm afternoon ; not a bad day , all in all , for enforced sequestration .
With the door of my office shed open , voices occasionally reach me from afar – from gardens , or from the street out front .
It ’s partly due to the absence of other noise – no cars , no construction , no planes , no background school - playground shrieking – and partly , I think , because everybody is projecting their chat across a two - metre safety gap .
I ca n’t always make out the words , but I know what they ’re saying .
If I overhear a conversation about something other than the lockdown , I know it ’s the Archers leaking from an open window .
Every day , at about five , I walk across the garden to the kitchen , where my oldest son is invariably sitting at the table , fist on forehead , gazing into his phone .
“ What ’s happening ? ”
I say .
We discuss the stupid thing that Donald Trump just said , and then I show him some viral videos that he has already seen .
The youngest one walks in .
“ Did you hear what Trump said ? ” he says .
“ I ca n’t believe how he was all like – ” “ All right , yeesh , ” says the youngest .
My wife walks in .
“ What ’s for supper ? ”
she says .
“ I do n’t really care . ”
“ We ’re strangely spoilt for choice , ” I say , staring into the fridge .
“ We really need to start eating some of this stuff . ”
I walk across the room to my case of wine .
When I pull back the cardboard flaps , I see that there is only one bottle left .
I pull it out and hold it up .
“ I do n’t understand how this could happen , ” I say .
“ We have , like , a six - month supply of pistachios , but we ’re out of wine ? ”
But I do know how it happened .
My sons do n’t normally drink wine , but when the beer ran out , they adapted .
When I realised what was going on , I tried to order some emergency wine , but the delivery got cancelled for safety reasons .
I am reminded that these are hard times for those of us who enjoy complaining about not very much .
“ There ’s actually some beer in the car , ” my wife says .
“ But I was too embarrassed to carry it in .
Wait until it gets dark . ”
After supper , the four of us make a half - hearted effort to watch a film together , but we are not practised at agreeing on things .
We flip around the channels and talk loudly over whatever we settle on .
“ We should all shave our heads , ” says the oldest .
“ Just to find out what we look like bald , ” he says .
“ By the time we ’re allowed out , it will have grown back . ”
“ I ’d be up for it , ” says the youngest .
“ I ’ve done it before , ” says the oldest .
“ Not my head , ” he says .
“ I ’ve shaved a head . ”
“ Let ’s perhaps save that one for the weekend , ” my wife says , changing the channel .

Why what we think we know about the UK's coronavirus death toll is wrong .
2020-04-04 05:13:08 +00:00 .
New figures reveal that what we think we know about the Covid-19 death toll in the UK is wrong .
Here ’s why .
Every day we get one big figure for deaths occurring in the UK .
Everyone jumps on this number , taking it to be the latest toll .
However NHS England figures – which currently make up the bulk of UK deaths – in fact reflect the day on which the death was reported , not the actual date of death , which is usually days , sometimes weeks , before it appears in the figures .
The truth is we do n’t know how many deaths have taken place the previous day .
In fact the headline figure is likely to under - report the number of deaths that actually happened the previous day .
The number we hear about usually mainly counts deaths which took place at an earlier date .
The difference matters because by undercounting the number of deaths we are skewing the curve .
Prof Sheila Bird , formerly of the Medical Research Council ’s biostatistics unit at Cambridge University , explains : “ We ’re on a rising epidemic trend , and so the death counts are currently increasing , and we ’re trying to track how steeply they are increasing .
If today I ’m getting to know about a series of deaths that occurred in the past 10 days , then what I ’m getting is not a reflection of the steepness of the curve at this moment . ”
On 30 March , NHS England reported 159 deaths in the 24 hours to 5 pm on Sunday 29 March .
However , the actual number of people who died in that 24 - hour period was revised up to 401 in Thursday ’s report and again to 463 on Friday as more deaths which occurred on that date were reported .
And this figure could be revised up again as more deaths come to light .
“ When you ’re on a rising trajectory , the reporting delay is likely to mean that you underestimate the steepness [ of the curve ] and so we may think that we ’re doing better than we are .
And when we come to the downturn in the epidemic , the slowing , and there ’s a decrease in deaths , we ’ll be too slow to recognise the change .
Hence , we risk getting it wrong in both senses , ” Bird adds .
Another complicating factor is that the Department of Health and Social Care ’s daily count covers deaths in hospitals , omitting those in the community .
Although the ONS this week started releasing the number of deaths including community deaths in England and Wales , there is also a time lag in this data being reported .
There are other datasets we can look at .
The number of confirmed cases of the virus is a useful indicator but it relies on testing , which has not been rolled out to cover a broad enough swathe of the general population to give us a sense of how many people are possibly infected .
The number of triage calls and online assessments through the NHS are also useful to give us a sense of potential infection levels – 1.9 m at the time of writing in England .
But these are people with Covid-19 symptoms , not those with confirmed cases of the virus .
The most solid data we have showing the trajectory of the impact of this virus are deaths .
That is why it is imperative that we have timely and reliable data – and why the seriousness of the problem is growing along with the death toll .
“ It ’s not uncommon that this happens in a new epidemic , ” Bird says .
“ Reporting delays are something to be managed , not to be ashamed of .
You manage them down but you do n’t want to do that by making people think they will be blamed for reporting late and therefore run the risk of failing to report .
That ’s the worst possibility . ”

Olympic men's football age limit raised to 24 after Tokyo Games postponement .
2020-04-03 23:25:50 +00:00 .
Fifa has extended the age limit for the men ’s football tournament at the rescheduled Tokyo Olympics to 24 from 23 .
Following the Games ’ postponement due to the coronavirus pandemic , the amended rule retains the original stipulation regarding teams being based around players born on or after 1 January 1997 , but given the Olympics ’ move to 2021 this now means older players will be allowed to participate .
It means players eligible for the intended under-23 tournament in 2020 can still play in Japan at age 24 next year .
The men ’s football tournament will kick off before the 23 July 2021 opening ceremony in Tokyo .
The 16 men ’s teams can also select three over - age players in their rosters , unlike the women ’s competition that has no age limit .
Due to line up in the men ’s tournament are Argentina , holders Brazil , France , Germany , Spain , Romania , New Zealand , Egypt , Ivory Coast , South Africa , Australia , Saudi Arabia , South Korea , and hosts Japan .
Fifa has also postponed two women ’s age - group World Cups due this year in Central America and India , and confirmed no international games for men and women will be played in the early June dates protected for national team call - ups .
The Women ’s Under-20 World Cup , due to be hosted by Panama and Costa Rica in August and September will be rescheduled , along with the Under-17s tournament originally earmarked for India in November .

Coronavirus Australia live news: NSW Health defends handling of Ruby Princess as more cases confirmed – latest update .
2020-04-03 21:37:38 +00:00 .
5.33pm EDT 17:33 New Covid-19 cases in Darwin Four residents of Darwin tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday , and all cases are related to interstate or international travel , the Northern Territory chief minister said in a statement overnight .
It brings the Territory ’s total to 26 cases .
A Darwin man , aged in his 40s , had been in self - quarantine after returning home from Africa when he became unwell .
Another man , in his 50s , became unwell while in self - quarantine after returning from the United Kingdom .
A woman , aged in her 50s , who had travelled to South America became unwell while in self - quarantine .
Under national medical guidelines , contact tracing on flights is not required due to the delay between their return to Darwin and becoming unwell .
The fourth case , a woman in her 20s , was in self - quarantine and is a close family contact of another Territorian already diagnosed with Covid-19 who had returned from overseas .
All four people are now in the care of Royal Darwin Hospital .
5.28pm EDT 17:28 Melissa Davey Good morning , Melissa Davey joining you for another Saturday to bring you all of the Covid-19 updates for Australia throughout the day .
If I miss anything , let me know at melissa.davey@theguardian.com or over at Twitter .
Let ’s recap the last 24 hours or so by starting with some good news .
Australia ’s chief health officer , Brendan Murphy , said he was “ quietly pleased ” with the numbers of new cases of Covid-19 slowing , with the rate of the number of new confirmed cases in single digits .
However , community transmissions have been growing .
There are now 300 community transmission cases in Sydney , 60 in Melbourne and 30 in Brisbane .
Australia is now in the “ suppression ” phase of containing the virus , the prime minister said on Friday .
In other updates : Last night , New South Wales Health confirmed that to date , there have been 342 confirmed cases of Covid-19 diagnosed in NSW related to Ruby Princess cruise ship passengers .
Defending their handling of the debacle , NSW Health said “ Transmission of Covid-19 amongst these passengers could not have been prevented by NSW Health staff .
No cases of Covid-19 were identified on board the ship before it docked .
The vast majority of these passengers reported they did not develop symptoms until after leaving the Ruby Princess . ”
Australia ’s death toll for Covid-19 is now 28 , after WA premier Mark McGowan said on Friday afternoon that a passenger from the Artania cruise ship , in his 60s , had died .
My colleague , federal political reporter Daniel Hurst , wrote a handy explainer about what the government ’s free childcare package in response to the virus means for you .
Meanwhile , sociologist Eva Cox asks whether the announcement is too good to be true .
Calls are growing for governments to support the evacuation of Aboriginal elders from remote and regional communities as Covid-19 spreads , indigenous affairs editor , Lorena Allam , reports .
Australia exceeded 5,300 confirmed cases on Friday .
After seemingly endless back and forth about whether Australia ’s modelling on coronavirus will be made public , the prime minister said this information will be released by the government next week after more work , and review by the national cabinet .
It is a complex data - set to release .
Thanks for joining me this morning , and I hope everyone is coping okay with isolation , checking in on their neighbours , and managing to get out for fresh air and maybe even a cheeky kebab without copping a fine .
Updated at 5.35pm EDT

Trump administration cut pandemic early warning program in September .
2020-04-03 20:09:52 +00:00 .
The Trump administration decided to end a $ 200 m early warning program designed to alert it to potential pandemics just three months before it is believed Covid-19 began infecting people in China .
The project , called Predict , had been run by the US Agency for International Development since 2009 .
It had identified more than 160 different coronaviruses that had the potential to develop into pandemics , including a virus that is considered the closest known relative to Covid-19 .
A decision to wind down the program was made , however , in September , just three months before the first reports of people becoming infected with Covid-19 in Wuhan , China .
The end of the program saw the departure of dozens of scientists and analysts working to identify potential pandemics in countries around the world , including China .
“ It was a genius , visionary program that USAid took a big risk to fund and it ’s a crying shame it was canceled , ” said Peter Daszak , president of EcoHealth Alliance , a non - profit specialist in tackling wildlife - borne disease that was one of the major partners in the program .
Daszak said he did not know why the initiative was scrapped or if the White House played any direct role in its ending .
EcoHealth Alliance has been given a temporary extension to work on the program but the role will finally come to a close in September .
The news about Predict ’s demise was first reported in the Los Angeles Times .
Predict ’s work focused on the dangers of viruses spreading from wildlife to humans and causing possible pandemics like the Covid-19 outbreak that has resulted in much of the world grinding to a halt .
It is suspected that Covid-19 made the leap to humans from a bat sold at a Wuhan market .
Daszak said there are an estimated 1.7 m mystery coronaviruses in wildlife that may have the potential to transfer to humans and cause another pandemic , making the early detection of these diseases imperative for public health and economic reasons .
“ We should ’ve been more unsettled about this before all this happened , ” he said .
“ We got a lot of flak for spending money in other countries but just think how much even a few billion would be worth to stop this sort of pandemic .
It ’s sad to see the project finish because it ’s the way of the future , in 50 years they will be bog - standard .
“ I ’m not confident we will learn the lessons from this , though .
We saw the same thing happen after Ebola and then Zika .
We are always behind with pandemics , we are flying blind .
We have hit the snooze button several times and now here ’s the big one . ”
It ’s not clear whether a continuation of the project would have dampened the current pandemic , although the Trump administration has faced criticism for its preparation before the outbreak .
The administration reduced a team working in China on pandemics and has repeatedly attempted to cut funding for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
A spokesman for USAid told the Los Angeles Times that the Predict program was “ just one component of USAid ’s global health security efforts and accounted for less than 20 % of our global health security funding ” .
A new initiative to help prevent the spread of diseases from animals to humans is due to start later this year .

US jobs report: unemployment rose to 4.4% in March after February's 50-year low .
2020-04-03 12:46:25 +00:00 .
America ’s decade - long record of continual job growth came to a shuddering halt on Friday as the US unemployment rate rose for the first time since 2010 .
The bureau of labor statistics announced that unemployment rose to 4.4 % in March , up from a 50 - year low of 3.5 % in February , as the US lost 701,000 jobs .
The US has added jobs month after month since the end of the last recession and until the coronavirus pandemic struck employers had struggled to fill open positions .
But in the just two weeks the coronavirus pandemic has battered the jobs market , leading close to 10 million people to file for unemployment benefits , breaking unemployment office websites and call centers with the volume of their applications .
The official monthly jobs report was compiled using data collected before 14 March , ahead of a wave of announcements from companies big and small that they were laying off workers as the US moves to restrict movement and contain the Covid-19 outbreak .
The treasury secretary , Steve Mnuchin , and others have speculated unemployment could rise to 30 % in the coming months with economists worrying that the US now faces a recession of a depth unseen since the Great Depression of the 1930s unless a solution is found that will allow people to go back to work .
Forecasting firm Oxford Economics is predicting a 16 % unemployment rate by May with the loss of 27.9 m jobs , more than double the 8.7 m jobs cut during the 2007 - 2009 recession and its aftermath .
Those jobs were lost over more than two years .
If the unemployment climbs above 15 % , it would be the highest on record since 1940 .
Unemployment touched 10 % in October 2009 during the last recession .
The previous peak was in 1982 , when it reached 10.8 % .
Unemployment during the Great Depression peaked at 24.9 % in 1933 .
Earlier this week ADP , the US ’s largest payroll processor , said private employers cut a total of 27,000 jobs last month .
Small businesses have been particularly hard hit as the pandemic has shaken the US economy .
They cut 90,000 jobs and the total number was buoyed up by gains in other sectors .
ADP ’s survey too was conducted in mid - March and the company said it did “ not fully reflect the most recent impact of Covid-19 on the employment situation ” .
The true impact of the coronavirus on the jobs market will probably start appearing in next month ’s report .
The number of Americans filing claims for unemployment benefits has now broken records for two weeks in a row with more people seeking assistance than at any point in the last recession .
In the last two weeks more people filed for unemployment than the combined number of people who filed in the first 10 months of the year .

Clubs risk Champions League exclusion if seasons abandoned prematurely .
2020-04-03 08:36:44 +00:00 .
Uefa and Europe ’s football leagues and top clubs have emphasised their determination to complete the 2019 - 20 season despite the coronavirus shutdown , with Uefa saying it may not accept clubs into next season ’s Champions League if they have not qualified in the normal way .
In a joint letter sent on Thursday night to Europe ’s 55 national FAs , leagues and top - division clubs , the Uefa president Aleksander Ceferin , chairman of the European Club Association Andrea Agnelli , and Lars - Christer Olsson , president of European Leagues , maintain that remaining club matches in national leagues and the Champions and Europa Leagues may be completed by playing into July and August .
However they acknowledge that the scale of the crisis means they do not expect to have a clear idea of how that might be done until mid - May at the earliest .
As reported by the Guardian before Uefa ’s video conference with national FAs on Wednesday , the football authorities in England and across Europe are increasingly accepting that starting to play again by June is optimistic , a revision of their initial hope that the season could be finished by 30 June .
In the letter , Ceferin , Agnelli and Olsson wrote : “ We are confident that football can restart in the months to come – with conditions that will be dictated by public authorities – and believe that any decision of abandoning domestic competitions is , at this stage , premature and not justified .
“ Since participation in Uefa club competitions is determined by the sporting result achieved at the end of a full domestic competition , a premature termination would cast doubts about the fulfilment of such condition .
Uefa reserves the right to assess the entitlement of clubs to be admitted to the 2020 - 21 Uefa club competitions , in accordance with the relevant applicable competition regulations . ”
The joint letter was sent after the Belgian League management board on Thursday became the first in major European football competition to recommend scrapping efforts to finish the season , saying it will award its championship to Club Brugge who are 15 points ahead of second placed Gent .
The league ’s clubs will now have to seriously think about whether to accept that recommendation given the collective statement of intent by Uefa , the ECA and EL .
The letter acknowledges that the “ health crisis caused by the spread of Covid-19 has no precedents in our society ” but , referring to the decision to allow more time for club competitions to run into the summer by postponing the summer ’s European Championship , says : “ European football has nonetheless been capable of reacting as one united family .
The common standpoint struck on 17 March by Uefa , the ECA and EL was that every effort had to be made in order to allow all domestic and European competitions to be concluded in compliance with their formats . ”
Referring to the working group set up by Uefa to consider how matches could be completed , the letter notes the idea of trying to finish national leagues first , then play the remaining Champions League and Europa League ties after that .
The work is “ now focusing on scenarios encompassing the months of July and August ” , the letter says .
“ Closely following the development of the current situation , the calendar working group will indicate as soon as possible , and ideally by mid - May , which of the plans can be enacted for the completion of the season without leaving anyone behind .
“ Stopping competitions should really be the last resort after acknowledging that no calendar alternative would allow to conclude the season . ”

Coronavirus leaves Aaron Cresswell 'petrified' for his newborn baby .
2020-04-02 17:00:28 +00:00 .
The West Ham defender Aaron Cresswell has admitted the coronavirus pandemic has left him “ petrified ” for his newborn baby and insists the Premier League should not be held to ransom on a return date .
The football calendar is currently suspended until April 30 , but that is widely expected to get extended when the Premier League clubs meet on Friday .
Uefa said on Wednesday that all domestic leagues should be finished by early August , which is putting pressure to restart as soon as possible .
But Cresswell , whose daughter was born just before the outbreak of the virus escalated in this country , says football is not a priority .
“ At the start , I do n’t think anyone realised how serious it was , ” he told the club ’s official website .
“ Once we played the Arsenal game , football came to a stop after [ Arsenal manager ] Mikel Arteta was tested , and it came back positive .
Their squad went into isolation and then that was pretty much it .
There was no other option .
Football had to be suspended .
“ Here we are four weeks later , football has been suspended again until 30 April , but the most important thing is everyone ’s health and wellbeing .
Football can wait .
Simple as that .
I ’ve got a baby daughter and she is five weeks ’ old and , I ’ll be honest , I ’m petrified .
“ In my opinion , I think there has been a lot of talk about how quick we can get football back , but the main focus should be on people ’s health and staying indoors .
Of course , we ’re all missing it but there is a whole bigger picture than a game of football and I believe once all this has blown over , we can get back up and running . ” Clubs are facing the prospect of losing £ 750 m of TV revenue should the league be cancelled , meaning it is a scenario they are trying to avoid .
Resuming the season behind closed doors is one idea that has been put forward , but Cresswell has his reservations .
He said : “ There is talk of playing games behind closed doors before the crowds return
but I hope the players are respected as much as the public are , and they do n’t just ask us to play for entertainment on TV .
You ’re going to need all the officials , staff , medical provision , media and broadcasters
, so it ’s not just 22 players going out and playing football . ”

Premier League clubs must face windfall tax over wages, says MP .
2020-04-02 13:59:21 +00:00 .
Pressure continues to grow on Premier League players to reduce their pay after a call from parliament for a windfall tax on clubs who refuse to cut player wages while putting non - playing staff on furlough .
The Conservative chair of the influential DCMS select committee , Julian Knight , has said that the clubs using the government ’s coronavirus job retention scheme should be subject to a government levy .
Knight had previously spoken of a “ moral vacuum ” in football after Tottenham Hotspur , Newcastle United , Norwich City and Bournemouth all announced they would be furloughing staff while continuing to pay players as before .
On Thursday , Knight went further , and called on government to intervene : “ We are facing an obscene situation where top players who are n’t working are continuing to see hundreds of thousands of pounds roll in each week while the staff who keep the clubs going are losing wages , ” he said .
“ If the Premier League is n’t going to act to resolve this crisis then the government must step in by imposing a significant financial penalty on clubs to reimburse those hit hardest in the pocket .
“ That ’s why I have written to Chancellor Rishi Sunak today demanding that Premier League clubs do the right thing by Tuesday next week or face the consequences . ”
Knight ’s remarks were made at the same time as Premier League officials , alongside those from the EFL and representatives of the player ’s union , the PFA , went into their another day of discussions over how to resolve the issue of keeping football clubs solvent during the coronavirus crisis , when live sport has been completely wiped from the national landscape .
On Wednesday , the Guardian reported that the Premier League had insisted to the PFA that players would have to share some of the game ’s financial losses .
The PFA , however , are believed to prefer that their clients see their wages deferred until competitions which are currently suspended can be completed .
After the meeting the participants issued a statement saying discussions had been “ constructive ” and were “ set to continue in the next 48 hours ” .
The Premier League has a meeting with its clubs on Friday but with external pressure growing on all parties to reach some kind of resolution , the negotiations are increasingly under the spotlight .

Eddie Jones set to sign new England contract until World Cup 2023 .
2020-04-01 20:39:07 +00:00 .
Eddie Jones is believed to be on the verge of agreeing a contract extension as England ’s head coach through to the next World Cup .
Jones ’s current deal is due to expire next year but it is thought he is set to commit through to France 2023 after discussions with the Rugby Football Union chief executive , Bill Sweeney .
Jones ’s long - term future has been uncertain ever since guiding England to their first World Cup final for 12 years last November .
In the buildup to the tournament he had regularly hinted that he would leave his role upon its completion
but Sweeney acknowledged after the final defeat by South Africa that it “ made sense ” for Jones to stay until 2023 .
The following month Sweeney insisted he was in “ no rush ” to tie Jones down for a further two years but the pair have held recent talks over the Australian ’s contract and it is thought they are closing in on an agreement .
The RFU declined to comment on Wednesday night .
In the aftermath of the World Cup final , Jones had hinted he may not stay on until the next tournament , admitting that it was “ hard to kick stones for four years ” but insisted he would see out his contract until 2021 .
His initial deal was up until the 2019 World Cup but it was extended for another two years by the then RFU chief executive , Steve Brown , in January 2018 , ensuring Jones would be available for the British & Irish Lions job .
With Warren Gatland committing to another Lions tour , however , Jones has slowly but surely warmed to the idea of staying on as England ’s head coach .
On the eve of the start of the Six Nations Jones seemed more open to staying , claiming that “ the players will let him know ” when it is time to leave .
If he does stay until 2023 he will become England ’s longest - serving head coach in history , eclipsing the 2003 World Cup - winning coach Sir Clive Woodward , who was in charge from 1997 to 2004 .
Jones is in Japan but last week it was revealed he had agreed to cut his £ 750,000 salary by more than 25 % , in line with Sweeney and the rest of the executive team , with the RFU forecasting losses of up to £ 50 m over the next 18 months .
Under his tenure England have won the Six Nations title twice – clinching the grand slam in 2016 – and were sitting top of the championship table before the postponements caused by the the coronavirus outbreak .

UK to set up virtual parliament during coronavirus shutdown .
2020-04-01 19:09:25 +00:00 .
The government is to set up a virtual parliament to allow MPs to scrutinise its response to the coronavirus crisis following demands from the Commons Speaker , Lindsay Hoyle , and opposition parties .
The move was announced on Wednesday night amid mounting concerns that the government has failed to get a grip on the crisis , with claims that health workers ’ lives are at risk because of a lack of protective equipment and a shortage of tests for the virus .
Jacob Rees - Mogg , the leader of the House of Commons , announced the move in a statement that said the government and parliament hoped appropriate technology would be in place by 21 April , when MPs are due to return to Westminster .
He said : “ Parliament ’s role of scrutinising government , authorising spending and making laws must be fulfilled and in these unprecedented times that means considering every technological solution available .
We are exploring options with the parliamentary authorities in readiness for parliament ’s return . ”
A source said the plan would be in place by the end of the month .
It follows calls from across the political spectrum for MPs to be allowed to scrutinise the government remotely at a time of enormous social upheaval and as freedom of movement is being curtailed by new laws to encourage social distancing and self - isolation .
The government came under pressure to set up a virtual parliament after an unusual intervention by Hoyle on Wednesday .
In a letter to Rees - Mogg , the Speaker said MPs should still be able to take part in prime minister ’s questions , and put questions to government departments and ministers even if they can not return as scheduled on 21 April .
Hoyle argued that a trial of virtual select committee hearings had already been successful – and he has now asked officials to investigate how they would apply similar technology for use in the Commons chamber .
Hoyle wrote : “ Once the house returns , if we are still in the grip of the crisis where the physical presence of members , or too many members , in the palace is not appropriate , I am keen that they should be able to participate in key parliamentary proceedings virtually , for example , oral questions , urgent questions , statements .
“ ‘ The House Service has already trialled some virtual select committee evidence sessions with witnesses – and I have asked officials to investigate how they would apply similar technology to the types of business listed above . ”
The Speaker also asked if it would be possible for the government to set up a forum of MPs during the recess , possibly via select committee chairs , who could quiz senior government representatives at set times on different days .
“ MPs are being swamped right now with questions and case work from distressed constituents who need answers , ” he said .
“ Responses can not wait for the house to sit again . ”
One hundred MPs from Labour , the Scottish National party and the Green party wrote a letter last week to the Commons clerk , John Benger , asking for his support in setting up a form of digital parliament .
Parliament broke for recess a week early as the number of cases of Covid-19 around Westminster increased .
MPs are not due back until 21 April .

UK likely to postpone Cop26 UN climate talks in Glasgow until 2021 .
2020-04-01 18:18:44 +00:00 .
The UK is poised to postpone the UN climate talks due to be held in Glasgow later this year to next spring as governments struggle to halt the spread of coronavirus .
The most important climate negotiations since the Paris agreement in 2015 were scheduled to take place this November to put countries back on track to avoid climate breakdown .
They are now expected to be pushed back as late as May 2021 .
The UK energy minister and president of the Cop26 conference , Alok Sharma , is understood to have held crunch talks on Wednesday afternoon to confirm the timing of the talks as governments around the world struggle to stem the spread of the virus .
He is expected to ask the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change ( UNFCC ) for permission to delay the vital talks because of widespread disruption caused by coronavirus .
The decision , which is expected to be announced at 7 pm on Wednesday , precedes a key preliminary meeting scheduled for Bonn , Germany , in early June , which is also expected to be derailed by widespread lockdowns and travel restrictions .
The delay will come as a blow to climate campaigners , who have urged the UK government to proceed with the conference despite the outbreak to avoidstalling progress on global climate action .
Since the Paris agreement , countries have failed to develop climate commitments that go far enough to avoid a catastrophic environmental breakdown .
The Glasgow talks aimed to galvanise tougher plans to cap rising temperatures by limiting greenhouse gas emissions .
Nicholas Stern , one of the most prominent global experts on the climate crisis , urged Boris Johnson to resist calls to postpone the talks .
At the moment we must just get on with the preparation , ” he said this month .
“ This is such an urgent challenge and there is so much to do , and so much valuable work that is being done , that we canot afford to lose the momentum . ”

Big Issue to be sold in stores for first time after street sales paused | The Big Issue | The Guardian .
2020-04-01 12:30:45 +00:00 .
The Big Issue is to go on sale in supermarkets for the first time in an effort to make money for vendors left without income during the coronavirus outbreak .
The magazine , normally sold on the street by homeless people , is to be sold in selected Sainsbury ’s and McColl ’s stores after sales were paused on 22 March to protect the health of its vendors .
John Bird , who set up the Big Issue 29 years ago , said : “ The future of the magazine is at risk if we do n’t get £ 60,000 through subscriptions for the magazine or digital issues .
If we do n’t get that within a month or two we will have nothing , as all our income comes from the street sellers .
We have never built up large banks of money , and all the money raised has gone back to the product . ”
He added : “ For health reasons we stopped selling it on the streets the weekend before last and we have been campaigning to turn the magazine into a digital magazine or one you can buy through subscription or at supermarkets and newsagents . ”
Lord Bird said the plan was still to give 50 % of profit to homeless vendors .
“ Up until now we have worked on the premise that people work for money .
It ’s a hand up , not a hand down , but we have had to suspend that .
With the world heading for handouts , we need to make sure those we work with also get handouts . ”
Bird said the money would be given to homeless vendors around the country , and the organisation was trying to track down around 500 sellers .
It has already been in contact with 1,000 individuals .
“ It will take longer for the vendors to get money than it normally would , but it will start to flow once the system is up and running .
At the moment we are building the system , ” he said .
Customers will be able to purchase copies in 164 Sainsbury ’s stores initially , extending to 315 over the coming weeks , and 1,430 McColl ’s stores , for the price of £ 3 .
The Big Issue is also going to be launching an app .
“ You can also buy a magazine online or subscribe for three months whilst your vendor is n’t on the street
, ” Bird added .
Paul Mills - Hicks , Sainsbury ’s commercial director , said : “ We are proud to be supporting a cause as important as The Big Issue Group , which exists to offer homeless people , or individuals at risk of becoming homeless , the opportunity to earn an income .
Coronavirus has affected everyone in the UK , and it ’s important that we show our support for each other in these increasingly challenging times .
“ We hope that by providing a means for our customers to purchase a copy of the Big Issue , we can encourage people to continue to buy the magazine , which so many vulnerable people rely on . ”
Since the Big Issue launched in 1991 , more than 200 million copies have been sold by more than 100,000 vulnerable people .

British Grand Prix's fate to be decided by late April amid coronavirus threat .
2020-04-01 11:06:48 +00:00 .
A decision on whether the British Grand Prix is to be postponed will be be made at the end of April .
Silverstone and F1 have issued a joint statement acknowledging that while other major events set for this summer have already been called off , the grand prix – scheduled for 19 July – was not under any logistical pressure to do so immediately .
Eight Formula One meetings have already been postponed or cancelled this season because of the coronavirus pandemic but the British Grand Prix remains on the calendar .
With the UK still under lockdown Wimbledon , due to start on 29 June , is expected to be the next major event to fall .
The Tokyo Olympics , Euro 2020 and the French Open tennis tournament have already been postponed and The Open from 16 - 19 July at Royal St George ’s is also under threat .
According to the British Grand Prix ’s organisers , however , the race remains viable for the moment .
Their statement read : “ Silverstone and Formula One remain in close dialogue regarding the ongoing situation and are assessing the feasibility of holding the British Grand Prix on 17 - 19 July .
“ We fully appreciate that other UK sporting events in July have taken decisions regarding their events , but it is important to highlight that their logistics and sporting arrangements differ from Silverstone ’s and , therefore , our timeline gives us until the end of April to make a final decision .
The safety of our fans , colleagues and the F1 community will be our priority and we will continue to engage with the appropriate authorities . ”
Last week Stuart Pringle , the circuit ’s managing director , warned that if the UK ’s lockdown , currently set to end on 13 April , was extended it would make preparations for the grand prix difficult .
However the statement suggests both F1 and Silverstone are willing to delay their decision should restrictions continue until the end of April .
Building the infrastructure around the circuit is crucial with Pringle noting that 12 weeks was required to do so .
As things stand the first race that can be held this season is the Canadian GP on 14 June , although current restrictions on entry to the country mean that too is unlikely to take place .
Organisers have said they will make a decision by Easter weekend ( 11 - 12 April ) .
F1 is still hopeful of finding new dates for cancelled races , targeting a total of 15 - 18 for the season .
On Tuesday the FIA confirmed that the teams have waived their rights to be consulted on the rescheduling of the calendar and agreed that the season could run into January 2021 if necessary .
A minimum of eight meetings are required to constitute a world championship .

Amazon fires New York worker who led strike over coronavirus concerns .
2020-03-31 15:59:06 +00:00 .
An Amazon worker who led a walkout a New York City facility on Monday has been fired .
Chris Smalls , an assistant manager and organizer , learned of his termination as dozens of workers protested against the company ’s response the coronavirus outbreak .
“ It ’s a shame on them , ” Smalls told Vice News on Tuesday .
“ To fire someone after five years for sticking up for people and trying to give them a voice . ” Strikers at the JFK8 warehouse in Staten Island demanded Amazon temporarily shut down the large facility for cleaning , after reports of multiple employees testing positive for Covid-19 .
The respiratory disease has infected more than 164,000 Americans and killed more than 3,000 , more than died in the 9/11 terror attacks .
The workers also demanded more protective gear and hazard pay as they work through the pandemic .
Amazon confirmed that two workers at JFK8 tested positive and were quarantined .
Workers allege that number is understated .
In a call - and - response outside the fulfillment center , protesters reportedly chanted : “ How many cases we got ?
Ten ! ”
In a statement , Amazon alleged Smalls “ had close contact with a diagnosed associate ” but did not comply when “ asked to remain home with pay for 14 days ” .
“ Despite that instruction to stay home with pay , he came onsite today , 30 March , further putting the teams at risk , ” the statement read .
“ This is unacceptable and we have terminated his employment as a result of these multiple safety issues . ”
According to the company ’s previous statements , the infected coworker in question last reported for work on 11 March .
Had Smalls been exposed that day , a 14 - day mandatory quarantine would have made him eligible to return as soon as 25 March .
Smalls said Amazon did not send him home until 28 March , three weeks after the exposure .
“ No one else was put on quarantine , ” he said , even as the infected person worked alongside “ associates for 10 - plus hours a week ” .
“ You put me on quarantine for coming into contact with somebody , but I was around [ that person ] for less than five minutes , ” he told Vice .
According to Amazon , no one else was fired .
Smalls said he was considering legal action , calling it “ a no - brainer ” .
“ Anyone can see this is a direct target , ” he said .
Supporters of the protest excoriated the company for firing Smalls , which many said would intimidate workers .
Some feared further retaliation .
“ I ’m considering all legal options and calling on the [ National Labor Relations Board ] to investigate , ” she said in a tweet .
Amazon has insisted it takes “ extreme measures ” for safety , including deep cleaning and procuring supplies .
More than 800,000 workers were offered unlimited if unpaid leave if they felt uncomfortable working .
The company disputed nearly every detail related to the protest , from the number of participants to Smalls ’ job title .
Organizers claimed more than 60 workers participated .
Amazon said 15 .
The company said no other participants in Monday ’s walkout would be subject to discipline or termination .

Coronavirus: at a glance .
2020-03-31 11:02:09 +00:00 .
Spain has recorded a record new single - day coronavirus death toll after 849 people died from the virus between Monday and Tuesday .
The country ’s total number of cases now stands at 94,417 – up from 85,195 on Monday – and its death toll at 8,189 .
The number of coronavirus cases in Russia jumped to 2,337 on Tuesday , an increase of 500 , as the country recorded its biggest daily rise for the seventh day in a row .
In Russia , 18 people who contracted the coronavirus have died , while 121 people have recovered .
Italy has extended its lockdown until Easter .
The number of new coronavirus infections reported on Monday was 1,648 , as opposed to 3,815 the previous day .
The death toll , however , rose again , with 812 deaths reported , compared with 756 the day before .
An additional 40 previously unreported coronavirus deaths occurred in England and Wales earlier this month , according to new official backdated figures .
The figures , which are based on death certificates , show there were 210 deaths where Covid-19 was listed as a cause by 20 March , 40 more than the 170 announced by the NHS at that stage .
The figure is higher because it includes deaths outside hospitals , including those in homes and care homes , and includes patients who had not tested positive for the virus but were suspected of having the disease .
Ireland ’s daily growth rate in confirmed cases of coronavirus has halved .
Ireland on Monday confirmed 295 new cases , the second highest daily number , bringing the total to 2,910 .
It recorded eight deaths , bringing the death toll to 54 .
Northern Ireland has 533 confirmed cases and 22 deaths .
The coronavirus epidemic is “ far from over ” in the Asia - Pacific region , and current measures to curb the spread of the virus are buying time for countries to prepare for large - scale community transmissions , a WHO official said .
The first comprehensive study of Covid-19 deaths and hospitalisations in mainland China has revealed in stark detail the increase in risk for coronavirus patients once they reach middle age .
Figures from Johns Hopkins University show the toll from coronavirus in the US now exceeds that from the September 11 terrorist attacks .
The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the US , at 164,539 is double those in China .
China ’s growth could come to a standstill while 11 million more people in East Asia could be driven into poverty .

Coronavirus Australia latest: at a glance .
2020-03-31 06:58:50 +00:00 .
Here is our daily roundup of the latest developments on the coronavirus pandemic in Australia .
The main stories on Tuesday 30 March are : State and territory governments around the country have implemented new rules designed to get people to stay home to slow the spread of coronavirus .
The harshest penalties and strongest restrictions are in NSW and Victoria , which have both recorded the most cases .
In NSW and Victoria , people who leave their home for reasons not on the exception list , including for exercise , shopping at places still allowed , work , or medical needs , they could face fines of up to $ 11,000 in NSW and $ 1,600 in Victoria .
More than 230,000 Australian businesses and sole traders have applied for the government ’s jobkeeper program in just the one day since it was first announced .
From 1 May , those who meet the criteria will get $ 1,500 a fortnight for each employee backdated to 30 March .
The payment covers all Australian employees , and New Zealanders on 444 visas who have been stood down since 1 March .
There are now 4,359 cases of coronavirus in Australia , and Tasmania recorded its second death after a man died in a Hobart hospital .
A total of 50 people are in intensive care units , and 20 people are on ventilators .
There are beginning signs of possible community transmission in Bondi , and a mobile testing unit may be set up .
In a package worth $ 1.3bn , the federal government will pay private hospitals to help out with the demand faced by the public system as a result of coronavirus .
Private hospitals would support the Covid-19 response through activities such as providing care for public patients , carrying out category 1 elective surgery , and providing wards and theatres to expand ICU capacity .
Virgin Australia has asked the federal government for a $ 1.4bn loan from the government to stay afloat .
Qantas reportedly says if Virgin gets the money , it should get a $ 4.2bn loan .
The latest Guardian Essential poll shows Australians ’ concern about the threat of coronavirus is at 53 % , up 14 % from last week .
At the same time , the number of people who said there had been an overreaction to it went down from 33 % to 18 % .
Six baggage handlers at Adelaide airport have tested positive for Covid-19 .
SA Health is telling people who arrived there in the past 48 hours to wipe down their bags .
About 100 staff will need to self - isolate .
The WA government has introduced laws that mean anyone who refuses to comply with self - isolation directions could be forced to wear an electronic device or have one installed in their home .
Looking for more coverage ?
Read the latest news from across the Guardian ’s global network .
Think a friend would like to get this email ?
Simply forward this email with this link to the signup page .

More than 400 coronavirus cases – 10% of Australia’s total – are from Ruby Princess cruise ship .
2020-03-31 05:13:59 +00:00 .
There are more than 400 confirmed cases of coronavirus across Australia from the Ruby Princess cruise ship , according to state health departments .
As of Monday , at least 440 passengers across six states and two territories had tested positive for Covid-19 after disembarking from the cruise ship , which docked twice in Sydney in March .
In a move the NSW health minister later admitted was a mistake , 2,700 passengers were allowed to disembark without checks from NSW Health on 19 March , with many boarding flights interstate .
Another boatload of passengers did the same on 8 March .
There are now more cases of Covid-19 from the Ruby Princess outside NSW than within the state .
On Monday , the respective state health authorities revealed there were 211 cases from Ruby Princess in NSW , 71 in South Australia , 70 in Queensland , 43 in Western Australia , 22 in the ACT , 18 in Victoria and two in the Northern Territory .
Tasmania had three confirmed cases as of Tuesday 24 March , but has not provided an update since .
This means Ruby Princess passengers account for a tenth of all national cases of coronavirus ( 4,512 as of Tuesday afternoon ) , and a quarter of all cases in South Australia – the single biggest cluster of cases in that state .
On 21 March , the NSW health minister , Brad Hazzard , admitted it had been a mistake to allow the passengers to disembark on 19 March without testing .
On 27 March , NSW Health said it would stop “ providing any more national or interstate figures , just our NSW figures ” , despite the rise in interstate cases .
Earlier , a spokesman for Princess Cruises said : “ Our onboard medical team was rigorous in its treatment of some guests who reported flu - like symptoms , and these guests were isolated .
“ The ship reported these cases to NSW Health , which in turn requested swabs to be provided following the ship ’s arrival in Sydney , some of which subsequently tested positive for Covid-19 . ”
NSW Health said earlier : “ No cases of Covid-19 had been identified by doctors onboard before docking . ”
A Queensland Health spokesman said : “ All other passengers have been given clear direction from Queensland Health to quarantine themselves for 14 days and phone ahead before attending their GP or attend a local fever clinic should they develop symptoms . ”

Anniversary Games under threat if West Ham refuse to compromise on stadium .
2020-03-30 18:24:53 +00:00 .
The prospect of the Anniversary Games taking place at the London Stadium in July is in further doubt after West Ham indicated they could force UK Athletics to reschedule its flagship event if the Premier League season is extended because of the coronavirus pandemic .
The new head of UKA , Joanna Coates , has called on West Ham to waive their tenancy rights if there is a fixture clash , and the London Legacy Development Corporation urged the club to compromise .
But West Ham have responded strongly to suggestions they could have to play matches in front of retracted stands and an athletics track .
The Anniversary Games , UKA ’s most lucrative event , is due to take place on 4 - 5 July but West Ham are legally entitled to insist that E20 ,
the stadium ’s owner , move or postpone other events if they clash with their matches .
West Ham are the stadium ’s principal tenants and have said they have written confirmation that E20 will respect the terms of their contract , which states their matches have overriding priority .
They believe the agreement remains in place until the end of the 2019 - 20 season and added that they were determined “ not to compromise when it comes to playing our fixtures ” .
However , it is also understood the contract states that West Ham have to show “ an element of reasonableness ” to accommodate other events .
UKA ’s belief is that the contract says athletics must take place at the stadium and , with the sporting calendar thrown into chaos , that West Ham will have to compromise .
The dispute could be difficult to resolve given that insiders have admitted that the Premier League side are ultimately entitled to point out they have primacy of use .
West Ham said : “ E20 CEO Lyn Garner wrote to West Ham United on 29 March and confirmed that all our competitive matches take precedence over other activity at the stadium and that E20 is in discussions with UKA , as they recognise that the Concessionary Agreement contractually obliges E20 to move or postpone other events at the stadium to ensure our matches to go ahead .
“ We want to reassure our supporters that , as and when the Premier League resume the season , the London Stadium will be configured for football matches and not inappropriately set up for an athletics meeting or a concert .
“ Our contract with the stadium requires E20 to provide the stadium configured for football if the season is extended .
It also requires them to work with UK Athletics and others to reschedule their meetings so that there is no clash with West Ham ’s fixtures . ”
UKA is unlikely to make a decision on whether to stage the Anniversary Games for at least another six weeks – with one insider saying they would wait until after a European Athletics meeting in early May , which will look at the feasibility of holding the European Championships in Paris in August .
If the Anniversary Games goes ahead it would provide UKA with a healthy financial windfall at a time of deep uncertainty .
A concern for West Ham is whether the work required to convert the stadium from football to athletics would interfere with their matches .
It is estimated that the conversion would take seven to 10 days and would be done by around 200 workers .
Decisions are yet to be taken over two other events at the stadium : Major League Baseball on 13 - 14 June and a Green Day concert on 26 June .
An LLDC spokesman said : “ These are unprecedented circumstances and we will work closely with all those holding events .
Whilst West Ham do have a priority use for football there is also a clear obligation to work collaboratively to avoid date conflicts and , if necessary , play their games with the seating and track set up for athletics . ”

UK coronavirus live: rate of infection may be 'just about' slowing, says expert .
2020-03-30 08:55:41 +00:00 .
4.50am EDT 04:50
Police have tasered a man who claimed to have Covid-19 and deliberately coughed on officers as they sat in a car .
The Metropolitan Police firearms command said on Twitter that the suspect had approached the officers in Haringey , north London , “ and shouted that he had Coronavirus before deliberately coughing saliva all over them ” .
He also began to physically attack them before he was tasered and arrested , the force said .
The suspect later tested positive for the virus .
4.48am EDT 04:48
Richard Adams
The government are set to cap the number of students that each university in England can take on in an effort to avoid a free - for - all on admissions , with institutions plunged into financial uncertainty as a result of the coronavirus pandemic , the Guardian has learned .
A government source said each university would face limits on the number of UK and EU undergraduates it could admit for the academic year in September , in a move backed by higher education leaders .
It will be the first limit on numbers since the university admission cap was lifted in 2015 .
4.46am EDT 04:46
Helen Pidd
An NHS nurse had a nice surprise when she woke up on the weekend to find her neighbours had painted her a dedicated parking space outside her house in Golborne in Wigan , Greater Manchester .
Her husband posted the following on Facebook : After my wife went to work at the hospital this morning , I opened the curtains and saw this on the road .
She has n’t seen it yet .
Like all busy streets , she normally ends up parking away from the house as there ’s no space near it when she comes home from her shifts .
No one has a right to park in front of their own house , but what absolutely gorgeous caring neighbours who have done this for her .
Such a caring touch .
She was emotional when the street clapped for the NHS in the week , this will do her in !
Let ’s keep supporting our nurses and NHS .
4.40am EDT 04:40
Good morning , 20,000 former NHS staff have answered calls for them to return to the workforce , Boris Johnson has confirmed .
In a video posted to his Twitter account last night , the prime minister thanked the doctors and nurses , as well as the 750,000 members of the public who have volunteered to help the service .
Meanwhile , the UK rate of infection from coronavirus may now be “ just about ” slowing , according to Prof Neil Ferguson of Imperial College London .
The indicators referred to by Ferguson , who has been highly influential in shaping the UK government ’s strategy , did not include deaths , but he added that new hospital admissions appeared to be slowing slightly .
We will be covering all UK coronavirus developments throughout the day .
You can read all the latest Guardian coronavirus articles here , you can read all the latest Guardian politics articles here , and you can follow our worldwide coverage of the coronavirus pandemic on our global live blog here .
You can follow me or contact me on Twitter @amyrwalker .
Updated at 4.47am EDT

First-time buyers: how will coronavirus crisis affect our move? .
2020-03-30 06:03:39 +00:00 .
Q We are in the process of buying our first house , with our expected moving in date at the end of April 2020 .
We are wondering whether , in this current coronavirus climate , moving house counts as “ essential travel ” .
Equally , will removal companies and cleaning companies ( which we will require for our end of tenancy clean ) be up and running , and classed as essential services ?
Many thanks , and I hope you can answer our query .
AM
A government guidance published on 26 March 2020 is silent on whether moving house counts as essential travel .
What it does make clear is that people who have n’t yet exchanged contracts on a property purchase should put off doing so .
Those , like you , who have exchanged contracts can go ahead if the move is to an unoccupied house .
Otherwise you should take steps to delay your completion date to which end the government is “ working with conveyancers to develop a standard legal process for moving completion dates ” .
If moving is unavoidable because you ’re not able to agree a delay , you must follow advice on social distancing when moving .
For the staff of removal firms this could be easier said than done .
Given the size of most domestic furniture , two people carrying a chest of drawers , for example , are going to be a lot less than two metres apart ; ditto sitting together in the cab of the removal lorry .
Given that you ’re not moving in until the end of April , none of the above may matter because your moving date is well after the end of the three - week lockdown on non - essential movement which is supposed to end on 13 April 2020 .
However , if the government does n’t see the evidence it needs to be able to relax restrictions , the lockdown could be extended – some say for as long as six months .
If the lockdown does get extended and your removal company cancels your planned removal ( because , say , it does n’t think it is feasible to follow the government ’s social distancing advice ) , there is one slight glimmer of hope .
Car rental firms are on the list of businesses that are allowed to stay open so there is , at least , the option to hire a van and do your own removals .
As far as your end - of - tenancy cleanup goes , although cleaners are not listed as “ essential ” , your cleaning company could still be able to go ahead with the cleanup .
Work can be carried out in people ’s homes provided the tradesperson concerned is well and has no symptoms of coronavirus .

Self-employed will struggle during this pandemic | Letters .
2020-03-29 17:53:35 +00:00 .
As a freelancer of nearly 20 years ’ standing , I welcome the support package for self - employed people ( Coronavirus : UK offers self - employed 80 % of earnings , 26 March ) .
But the exclusion of those who have become self - employed since the end of the 2018 - 19 tax year is disappointing .
It can hardly have escaped the chancellor ’s attention that the 2019 - 20 tax year ends on 5 April – nearly two months before the scheme is expected to begin paying out .
So why ca n’t the recently self - employed be assessed pro rata on the basis of a promptly submitted 2019 - 20 tax return ?
Likewise , I hope that assessment of those who became self - employed in 2018 - 19 will take account of the date on which their self - employment commenced , rather than assuming their earnings for that year represent a whole year ’s income .
Rob Sykes Oxford •
It seems the chancellor ’s support for those suffering as a result of the coronavirus pandemic only goes so far .
Those recently entering self - employment can apparently go swing .
I started self - employment in April 2019 after 44 years of paid ( and taxed ) employment .
As a result I am one of very few people who will not benefit from any grant or help that the government is offering .
At the same time I started self - employment , my wife decided to give up her reasonably paid position to work in a care home on minimum wage .
We were confident my income would support us until retirement .
My wife ’s low income also means no universal credit either .
I have lost all my work and income , and the chancellor does n’t care because there would be a risk of fraud , and yet I will shortly submit my tax return for the year ending 5 April 2020 and subsequently pay tax .
Paul Chapman Beyton , Suffolk
•
In 1996 , I wrote a pamphlet for the Institute of Employment Rights .
It was called Towards the Insecurity Society .
It showed how a scourge of self - employment had exploded in the construction industry in the UK .
Relieving employers of payment of national insurance , and with lower rates of tax and insurance for the self - employed , a powerful fiscal drive pushed millions of building workers into false self - employment .
Workers were given no option but to be self - employed : no employment rights , no security , no safety training , no apprenticeships , no pensions .
Most were working for the same contractors , under their instruction , using their capital equipment .
It was , and is , mass bogus self - employment , infecting most large building sites .
I predicted that this fiscal regime would equally drive bogus self - employment into other sectors of the economy .
But I could never have foreseen just how widespread this problem would become .
More recently , I calculated that this fiscal driver cost the Treasury at least £ 1.5bn a year in lost national insurance and taxation , just for the construction industry , never mind other sectors .
Now this bogus self - employment epidemic has collided with the coronavirus epidemic .
Millions of self - employed find themselves threatened with the abyss of no financial protection .
The fiscal and legal regime created a situation in which the Treasury was losing billions each year .
Now the Treasury is being asked to bail out the bottomless pit of which it was the architect .
If there could be a silver lining to this crisis , the underlying epidemic of bogus self - employment and the vulnerability it has created needs to be suppressed .
Not by any vaccine , but by the justice of good law and equitable tax regimes .
Emeritus Professor Mark Harvey
University of Essex

Coronavirus latest: at a glance .
2020-03-29 00:25:02 +00:00 .
The number of coronavirus deaths around the world has reached 30,652 , with confirmed cases passing 660,000 , according to the Johns Hopkins University .
To date , 139,415 have recovered .
The Spanish government has ordered all non - essential workers to stay at home for the next two weeks in an attempt to lower the spread of the coronavirus and reduce the pressure on the country ’s healthcare system .
It came after the head of Spain ’s centre for health emergencies said that the country might be close to peaking in the number of cases of coronavirus .
Panama ’s government has said it will allow the Zaandam cruise ship to pass through the Panama Canal .
The cruise ship has 130 people with flu - like symptoms , and four have died .
At least two of those with symptoms are confirmed to have coronavirus .
Previously , Panama ’s authorities had not given approval to let the ship pass through the canal , leaving passengers stuck on board .
No one from the ship will be allowed to disembark in Panama , but the passage will allow the ship to attempt to dock in Florida .
Northern Ireland has announced a series of restrictive measures aimed at reducing the spread of coronavirus .
Gatherings of more than two people have been banned , and anyone who can work from home must do so .
The regulations also give the authorities the power to close certain premises and prohibit anyone from leaving home without a reasonable excuse .
Authorities will have the power to enforce the measures , which came into force at 11 pm GMT on Saturday .
The coronavirus death toll in France has reached 2,317 , with more than 38,000 cases .
The official death tally is expected to jump next week , when authorities begin to include deaths in retirement homes , as well as just hospitals .
The British - Iranian aid worker who has been detained in Iran on spying charges has had her prison leave extended and her case put forward for clemency , her husband said .
Richard Ratcliffe said his wife ’s father had been told that her temporary release from Evin prison in Tehran would now continue until 18 April .
The leave was originally granted in response to the spread of coronavirus in Tehran , with Zaghari - Ratcliffe reportedly suffering from symptoms of Covid-19 before her recovery earlier this month .

Premier League players will be told to stop training amid doubts over restart .
2020-03-28 15:52:32 +00:00 .
The Premier League is ready to accept the inevitable over the coronavirus pandemic and tell its players to take a break from training as doubts increase over the likelihood of restarting the season in a month ’s time .
Clubs have been attempting to keep their players fully fit for a possible resumption of games after 30 April .
But even if the plan to play matches behind closed doors goes ahead , it seems that early May will be too soon .
Uncertainty remains over whether the season will be completed , but anything running into June would eat into the traditional holiday break for footballers as well as compromising preparations for the following season .
With no conceivable action for at least a month , and every possibility of the lay - off lasting longer , players are expected to be told to regard the present hiatus as an enforced rest before intensive training can resume once a definite restart date is announced .
In effect the game will take its annual holiday a few months early , though without the possibility of players jetting off to luxury destinations around the world in the usual manner .
Like the rest of the population , footballers are being advised to stay in their own homes .
While a more normal close - season break might be possible if the present campaign can be concluded before the end of June , for the moment it is being acknowledged that more harm than good might result from players following high - level training regimes at home with no resumption date in sight .
Complete rest then a mini pre - season before games start again would certainly be a simpler instruction to follow and , as Frank Lampard said , it has been difficult monitoring players ’ efforts when they are training at home due to physical - distancing measures .
“ We keep looking at it , saying : ‘ Well , how do we train ? ’ ” the Chelsea manager said .
“ The last thing I want to do at the moment when the players are in this position , when we do n’t know when the games are going to be , is to try and push and push and push the players for no reason . ”
Most players were sent home from their clubs with tailored programmes for general fitness but Jürgen Klopp would have liked to have been able to give a more detailed timetable .
“ At our last meeting nobody knew exactly how long it would go on , and nobody still knows , ” the Liverpool manager said .
“ All we could try and do was make sure everything was sorted in our little space as much as we could and organise what we could for the boys .
That ’s what we did in a very short time , then we sent the boys home , went home ourselves , and here we are still . ”

Coronavirus may be peaking in parts of Spain, says official .
2020-03-28 15:48:09 +00:00 .
The coronavirus outbreak may be peaking in parts of Spain , the country ’s health authorities said on Saturday as they announced another record single - day death toll of 832 .
The number of cases in the country rose from 64,059 on Friday to 72,248 on Saturday , and the number of dead now stands at 5,690 .
Between Thursday and Friday , 769 people died from the disease .
Despite the figures , the head of Spain ’s centre for health emergencies said the situation was improving in certain places .
“ We do n’t know exactly when we ’ll get confirmation , but we ’re getting close to the peak of the curve that we ’re studying so anxiously .
In some parts of the country , they probably may even have passed it – but we need to be cautious with preliminary information . ”
He added : “ The increase in cases is coming down in comparison with previous weeks , but it could be that there are cases that are n’t being detected in some regions . ”
But Simón also warned that reaching a peak would not ease the pressure on Spain ’s overstretched intensive care units ( ICUs ) , adding they were predicted to pass beyond full capacity in less than a week ’s time .
“ We still have a big problem when it comes to the overloading of our ICUs , ” he said .
“ Patients who pick up the disease today may need a bed in an ICU in seven to 10 days .
That means that we ’re still seeing a lag between the control of transmission and the saturation of ICUs .
It also means they ’re going to be overloaded by the end of next week or the beginning of the following week . ”
Even if Spain was close to its peak , said Simón , extra efforts had to be made to try to reduce the pressure on ICUs .
Meanwhile , the director of Spain ’s Carlos III Health Institute said researchers were studying how plasma from patients who have recovered from the virus could be used to treat those in hospital .
“ We ’ll keep financing projects over the coming weeks , ” said Raquel Yotti .
“ At the same time , we ’ll carrying on working to ensure that Spain has the best diagnostic tests . ”
Earlier this week , the Spanish government announced it had withdrawn 58,000 Chinese - made coronavirus testing kits from use after it emerged that they had an accurate detection rate of just 30 % .
Like other countries struggling to diagnose and treat the virus , Spain has looked to China for rapid testing kits equipment and much - needed supplies , and announced this week that it would spend € 432 m ( £ 390 m ) on tests , masks , gloves and other personal protective equipment .
However , a batch of Chinese - made kits bought by Spanish health authorities a few weeks ago has been pulled after they were discovered to be unreliable and the Chinese government said they had been made by a company that did not appear on its list of authorised manufacturers .
The government has not ruled out introducing stricter controls and the nationwide lockdown declared a fortnight ago has already been extended to 11 April .
Speaking to the Guardian earlier this week , Spain ’s foreign minister , Arancha González Laya , said : “ We have done what was required at every moment and we will continue down that path . ”

Coronavirus latest: at a glance .
2020-03-27 18:35:35 +00:00 .
The UK has recorded its biggest daily rise in coronavirus deaths for the second day running .
In the last 24 hours , 181 people have died after testing positive for Covid-19 .
It comes after 115 deaths were recorded the day before .
The death toll in the UK stands at 759 , with 14,579 confirmed cases .
Following the news that the prime minister , Boris Johnson , has tested positive for coronavirus , the health secretary , Matt Hancock , has also confirmed he has the virus .
Both are experiencing “ mild symptoms ” and are in self - isolation .
Italy has recorded its highest daily rise in Covid-19 deaths , with 919 new fatalities , taking the total to 9,134 .
The update follows a warning from the head of the country ’s national health institute that infections have not yet reached their peak and that lockdown measures will have to be extended .
France has extended its coronavirus lockdown until 15 April , the prime minister announced in a speech .
Edouard Philippe said it was clear the country was “ just at the beginning of this epidemic wave ” .
Four people have died on a cruise ship stranded off the coast of Panama amid a Covid-19 outbreak on board , the boat ’s owners have confirmed .
Congress has given final approval of a $ 2.2tn financial package designed to rush federal aid to workers , businesses and a healthcare system ravaged by the coronavirus , with politicians uniting to overcome a last - minute attempt to delay its passage .
In the Netherlands , the coronavirus death toll has risen to 546 , with 112 new deaths .
The number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 has increased by 1,172 to 8,603 – a 16 % rise .
Meanwhile , in Switzerland , the death toll had reached 197 , the health ministry said , up from 161 on Thursday .
A group of doctors has set up a crowdfunder to get vital protective equipment to medics who are dealing with coronavirus cases , amid concerns that NHS trusts are struggling to protect frontline workers because of a lack of supplies .

Open moves closer to postponement as R&A looks at 2020 reschedule .
2020-03-27 18:12:23 +00:00 .
The R&A is understood to be edging closer to a postponement of the Open Championship , amid a growing realisation golf ’s oldest major can not be held in July at Royal St George ’s .
An announcement could be made following talks next week , with the Open ’s organisers hopeful of rescheduling the tournament for later in the year as a backup plan .
With the Masters and US PGA Championship already postponed , the US Open and Open are the two men ’s majors left in their designated spots .
The US Open is due to start on 18 June at Winged Foot in New York , and reports in the United States suggest an unsurprising postponement is imminent .
With more than 200,000 spectators due to attend the Open , which runs from 16 - 19 July , there is a rising sense the coronavirus pandemic wo n’t have settled sufficiently for the tournament to be staged in satisfactory form for players or fans .
The Open clearly falls under “ mass gathering ” criteria , with issues relating to mass international travel also pertinent .
The R&A ’s contingency has been the topic for deep discussion at high levels in recent days .
Weather and light restrictions would theoretically leave September as the last month in which the Open can be played .
This year is the 149th playing of the Open , with 150 scheduled for the home of golf , St Andrews , next July .
With that in mind , the tournament ’s organisers are anxious to hold their major this year .
Any extended schedule delays could impact on Royal Liverpool and Royal Troon , which have already been confirmed as venues for 2022 and 2023 .
The R&A pointed towards their statement of last Thursday when asked for an update on the Open .
In it , the chief executive Martin Slumbers said : “ Our absolute priority is to ensure the safety of players , fans , officials , staff and all involved in our championships and that will be at the forefront of our thinking as we monitor developments . ”
It was announced on Friday that the Evian Championship , another women ’s major , has been rescheduled for 6 - 9 August from 23 - 26 July .
The August window was originally intended for the women ’s Olympic golf tournament , before the 2020 Tokyo Games were postponed .
It is thought the PGA of America also hopes to play the US PGA Championship , originally set for May , from 6 August at Harding Park in San Francisco .
The former US Ryder Cup captain Davis Love and his wife escaped without injury after their home in Georgia was burnt down early on Friday morning .
“ While everyone in our family is saddened at the loss of our home that was filled with so much laugher and incredible memories , we ’re very blessed that everyone is safe and unharmed , ” said Love .

Coronavirus UK lockdown causes big drop in air pollution .
2020-03-27 09:42:17 +00:00 .
The nationwide shutdown caused by the coronavirus outbreak has led to big drops in air pollution across the UK ’s major cities , new data analysis shows .
Levels of toxic pollutants are likely to fall even further , scientists said , as traffic remains off the roads but prevailing westerly winds from the Atlantic return .
Current easterly winds are bringing additional pollution from continental Europe to Britain .
The data shows drops in tiny particle pollution of a third to a half in London , Birmingham , Bristol and Cardiff , falls of about quarter in Manchester , York and Belfast , with smaller declines in Glasgow and Newcastle .
For nitrogen dioxide ( NO2 ) pollution , the data also shows declines of a third to a half in London , Birmingham , Bristol and Cardiff , and drops of 10 - 20 % in the other cities .
Air quality improvements have been seen in nations around the world from Italy to China , as much transport and industry has ground to a halt .
Public health experts have warned that the health damage inflicted on people by longstanding air pollution is likely to increase the death rate from Covid-19 .
“ The air is definitely much healthier , ” said Prof James Lee at York University and the National Centre for Atmospheric Science , who analysed the data .
“ [ Tiny particles and NO2 ] are the two air pollutants that have the biggest health impacts on people . ”
“ These are big changes – pollution levels are the equivalent at the moment of a holiday , say an Easter Sunday , ” he said .
“ And I think we will see an even starker drop off when the weather changes . ”
The data comes from background air monitoring stations in cities , sited away from main roads .
“ We chose these because that is where people live , ” said Lee .
The average pollution levels for the six - week period before the onset of coronavirus outbreak around the 10 February were compared with the six weeks after .
Lee also compared the period after the outbreak with the average of the same period over the last five years .
Both comparisons showed large cuts in pollution .
The analysis is preliminary as full calibration of the data takes time , but Lee said it was very clear there had been a significant fall in pollution .
The biggest factor is the reduction in road traffic , as other contributors such as gas power station operations , heating for buildings and emissions from farms are unlikely to have changed overall .
One pollutant – ozone – has risen .
This is because chemical interactions in the air normally result in NO2 and small particles reducing ozone levels .
So as they have fallen , ozone has risen .
But Lee said : “ The ozone increases are small , and it usually does n’t become a problem until the summer months anyway . ”
Some scientists have suggested that the number of early deaths avoided due to cleaner air might potentially outnumber the deaths from coronavirus .
“ It is going to be a very interesting epidemiological study , but they take years to do , ” said Lee .
He said analysis would be difficult because the health impact of the coronavirus was fast , while that of air pollution was slower , and because older people were most at risk from both factors .
“ There is no silver lining to the Covid-19 situation , ” he said .
“ But I think it shows we can actually achieve quite a lot without travelling .
It shows that if we did work from home more in normal times then we would have an effect on air pollution . ”
Levels of NO2 in most urban areas of the UK have been illegally high since 2010 and many areas have levels of small particles above the limit recommended by the World Health Organization .
This pollution is estimated to cause about 110 premature deaths every day .

Unemployment caused by coronavirus will leave deep scars in US .
2020-03-26 15:33:36 +00:00 .
The surge in unemployment in the United States caused by the Covid-19 pandemic shatters all previous records .
In its time , the world ’s biggest economy has seen some savage shake - outs of its labour market but nothing that remotely compares to what has just happened .
Jobless claims in the week ending 21 March surged to almost 3.3 m , which was double what Wall Street analysts had collectively been expecting .
The previous worst total in October 1982 was just one fifth of last week ’s level .
That , though , was during a recession engineered by the then chairman of the Federal Reserve , Paul Volcker , who used ultra - high interest rates to squeeze inflation out of the economy .
The pain in the early 1980s gradually ratcheted up : this time it has arrived overnight , with whole sectors of the economy shutting for business last week .
As a result , it was an absolute certainty that jobless claims would smash all known records this week .
In truth , the actual number was probably closer to 4 m because government offices struggled to process the deluge of new claimants .
As Paul Ashworth , a US economist at Capital Economics , noted , the increase in California was put at 200,000 , whereas more up - to - date information suggests that the layoffs in the country ’s most populous state have hit the 1 m mark .
Further big weekly rises in jobless claims can be expected over the coming weeks – although they seem unlikely to be quite as big .
That ’s because the sectors that felt the impact of the shutdown of the economy first – such as retailing and hospitality – are also the sectors that employ Americans in their tens of millions .
Before the Covid-19 pandemic struck , the US had its lowest unemployment rate since the late 1960s .
That is now history .
The official jobless rate is about to rocket from just under 4 % to at least 10 % .
Unemployment will start to come down again once the economy is out of lockdown and starts to recover .
But it will come down less rapidly than it is going up and – on past form – it will leave deep scars .
Rising unemployment is not helpful to sitting US presidents seeking re - election , which perhaps explains why the US government ’s stimulus package contained more generous benefits for those losing their jobs .
And why Donald Trump is so keen to get the economy going again .

Download and Isle of Wight festivals cancelled due to coronavirus .
2020-03-26 13:47:29 +00:00 .
Isle of Wight and Download festivals , two of the first major events in the UK ’s summer music calendar , have cancelled their 2020 events due to Covid-19 .
The Isle of Wight festival organisers said it was “ unavoidable given the current status ” of the outbreak , while Download offered “ heartfelt apologies ” .
Ticket holders for each event are entitled to refunds , or to carry over their ticket to 2021 .
The 70,000 - capacity Isle of Wight festival was due to host Lewis Capaldi , the Chemical Brothers , Duran Duran , Lionel Richie and more , from 11 - 14 June , while the 80,000 - capacity Download was to welcome headliners Kiss , Iron Maiden and System of a Down the same weekend .
Music festivals continue to be cancelled due to the outbreak .
Adding to Glastonbury , which was cancelled last week , Brighton ’s The Great Escape , Birmingham ’s Supersonic and Radio 1 ’s Big Weekend festival in Dundee have all also been called off .
Newcastle ’s
This Is Tomorrow festival has been postponed until 14 - 16 August from its original date of 22 - 24 May , as has Liverpool ’s Sound City , from 1 - 3 May to 25 - 27 September .
Another looming event , All Points East festival – taking place over numerous dates from 22 to 31 May in London ’s Victoria Park – has not yet been cancelled , but is expected to be , as is the three - city Dot to Dot festival from 22 - 24 May. Parklife and Lovebox festivals , due the same weekend as Download and Isle of Wight , have also not yet been called off .

Spain before and after Covid-19 state of emergency – in pictures .
2020-03-26 09:14:19 +00:00 .
On 14 March the Spanish government formally declared a state of emergency to combat coronavirus , placing the country in lockdown and ordering people to stay at home for the two weeks unless they had to buy food or medicine or go to work or hospital .
Mountain bikers riding along the Puente Nuevo bridge as they participate in the XX 101 km race in Ronda in May 2017 and the same bridge , this time empty , during the state of emergency Penitents and members of the Nuestro Padre Jesus Nazareno brotherhood carrying a float during a procession to commemorate the 75th anniversary of its blessing , on a hot summer ’s day in 2017 , and after the coronavirus outbreak Tourists shield themselves from the sun under umbrellas as they follow a guide during a hot spring day in May 2015 , and the same empty street during the state of emergency Women enjoy an outdoor zumba class along La Bola street in July 2013 and the same street in March 2020 La Bola street in July 2019 and during the state of emergency Mountain bikers get ready for a climb near the Puente Nuevo bridge in the XVIII 101 km race in May 2015 and a clear view of the same bridge Tourists walk past a bullring in Ronda in June 2016 and the emptied square People enjoying an evening out in a square in August 2019 and the same square emptied of tables and people People dressed as bandits and the bourgeoisie , performing during the Ronda Romantica festival in May 2017 , and the same street during the state of emergency Legionnaires take part in a parade on the eve of National Day in October 2013 and the empty street in March 2020

Call for isolated Britons to help digitise historical rainfall data .
2020-03-26 07:02:29 +00:00 .
Weather is a perennial British obsession , with some of the country ’s rainfall and temperature records going back centuries .
Some of this data has been invaluable in drawing up detailed pictures of the British climate , which have been influential in computer models used to forecast climate change .
But some of it is still effectively unusable because it is marooned in reams of old - fashioned paper records .
Now scientists at the University of Reading are planning to rescue these obscure rain gauge records , using citizen scientists to do the work .
They hope that hundreds of people currently stuck indoors with little else to do will be inspired to join up to help digitise rainfall data for use by meteorologists and climate experts .
Under the Rainfall Rescue project , volunteers will fill the gaps in British digital weather records between the 1820s and the 1950s by transcribing observations from scans of the old paper records .
“ We are set to reach in time to rescue millions of pieces of UK rainfall data that are currently going to waste in filing cabinets , ” said Ed Hawkins , a professor of climate science at the National Centre for Atmospheric Science and the University of Reading .
“ These records will help scientists better understand how and why rainfall varies so much in different locations across the UK .
With much of the population facing long spells indoors due to Covid-19 , the chance to be part of a serious science project may provide a welcome distraction . ”
Thanks to Britain ’s weather obsession , there are records from several thousand rainfall gauges sited across the country from the 1950s alone , but only a few hundred have been digitised so far .
The UK ’s variable climate , which scientists recently suggested was responsible for disguising some of the impacts of the climate crisis while the impacts in other parts of the world are growing more obvious , makes it crucial to understand why some parts of the UK are wetter or drier than others and to discern long - term trends .
For instance , extreme years – a year - long drought in 1921 and the notoriously wet summer of 1912 – can tell scientists a lot , and their understanding will be vastly improved if the weather sources from those years can be viewed at last .
Water companies and government planners will also benefit , as the resilience of current systems can be compared with real historical conditions .
This is the biggest such project yet , and Hawkins hopes to amass as near complete a record as possible from the 1820s to the 1960s , when digitised records began .
There have been three previous weather rescue projects , in which volunteers transcribed measurements from a weather station on top of Ben Nevis and early Victorian records .

'This really hurts': man shares Covid-19 experience in video .
2020-03-26 07:02:29 +00:00 .
Gasping for breath and struggling to speak , Andy Hardwick can barely keep his head upright as he describes the coronavirus symptoms he is experiencing .
The 51 - year - old is normally fit and healthy , visiting the gym at least three times a week , and suffering from asthma only occasionally .
But he has been completely floored by Covid-19 , and his friends and family urged him to make a video to show others how serious the illness can be .
“ My spine hurts , my back hurts , my neck hurts .
You do n’t want to talk , you get shortness of breath if you move around , and you do n’t want to lift your head off a pillow , ” Hardwick explained in the video , which has been shared on Facebook over 37,000 times .
In it , he lies back in a grey hoodie , fighting to keep his eyes open as he talks in short bursts to the camera .
“ It does come in waves , you will feel slight relief sometimes , then it will go … This really hurts , it ’s like nothing I ’ve ever had before , I would n’t wish it on my enemy , ” said Hardwick .
According to Hardwick ’s wife , Nicola , many friends have said they did n’t even recognise Andy in the video .
“ It was like everything had just left him , all the energy , ” she said .
Hardwick , a father of two from Wickford , Essex , said the illness started on Friday with a “ very dry cough ” which made his throat sore .
“ You start to feel generally crappy and then you ’ll find your lungs will tighten , ” he described .
He was n’t suffering from a fever initially , so he went to bed expecting the symptoms to pass .
However , he woke up a few hours later with a temperature , unable to breathe properly .
“ [ I was ] sweaty , clammy but freezing – I could n’t get warm and I had a raging thirst . ”
After calling 111 , he was assessed by a doctor over the phone who said his symptoms suggested he did have Covid-19 , and he was instructed to call back if his breathing deteriorated and he was in need of hospital treatment .
Although paracetamol helped to reduce his temperature , his preventative asthma pump did little to help his breathing difficulties , he said .
“ If you get the cough , it ’s very painful , and if you feel the need to laugh , do n’t , because it ’s very painful . ”
His family think he probably picked up the virus while travelling to London , where he works as head of repairs and operations at Camden council , although he had been working from home since 18 March .
On Wednesday morning , Nicola said Andy ’s state had improved and he was starting to breathe more easily , a welcome development after days of watching her husband suffer .
“ It is hard because you just want to give him a hug and you ca n’t .
I must admit I was very scared with the way he was , ” she told the Guardian .
She said she never expected the video to go viral , but is glad it has made an impact , having received many messages from people saying they ’re going to change their behaviour as a result .
“ You do think you ’re invincible .
You think : ‘ Oh , if I get it , I ’ll be ok , I ’m fit . ’
But this virus does n’t really care whether you ’re fit or young or old , ” Nicola said .
“ Everyone seems to get [ coronavirus ] different .
Some get it mild , some get it very strong , some are hospitalised , and that ’s the scary part , not knowing how you are going to be when you get it . ”
The video concludes with Hardwick ’s plea to the general public .
“ Please stay away from each other , respect each other .
If our parents or grandparents get this , and they ’re vulnerable or not fit , I ’d hate to think what it will do to them .
They will become a statistic .
Stay safe . ”

NRL player pay cuts loom after staff and coaches stood down .
2020-03-25 22:48:26 +00:00 .
NRL players are expected to find out by the end of the week how much the coronavirus crisis will affect their pay packets .
League officials on Wednesday began discussions with the players ’ union to determine the impact the season ’s enforced suspension on player salaries .
The talks come as hundreds more club staff , including head coaches John Morris and Paul Green , were ordered to take paid and unpaid leave .
NRL chief executive Todd Greenberg and his Rugby League Players Association counterpart Clint Newton were locked in talks for more than two hours .
Also at the table were club bosses Paul White ( Brisbane ) , Blake Solly ( South Sydney ) , Joe Kelly ( Sydney Roosters ) and Andrew Hill ( Canterbury ) .
Manly captain Daly Cherry - Evans was among a host of high - profile players present during the phone hook - up .
There were claims late on Wednesday that the players were asked to replicate their AFL counterparts and agree to a 50 % reduction in their salaries .
Those figures were immediately rejected by the RLPA .
Complicating negotiations is that , unlike the AFL which has suspended its season until 31 May , the NRL has shut down its season indefinitely .
The RLPA updated players on Wednesday afternoon , with details expected to be finalised with league central on Friday .
There is a sense of urgency to find a resolution so that clubs can sort out their own financial issues for their employees .
“ The conversations we started today are intended to resolve as quickly as possible what the current no - games situation means for players , ” Greenberg said .
“ We are trying to map out what is next in unbelievably difficult circumstances .
To do this , we need to be transparent and honest , combined with the trust and confidence of the players .
“ This means we will have hard conversations now , for the future good of the game .
The NRL and the players are absolutely aligned in our desire to ensure the game gets through this crisis . ”
Greenberg ’s comments comes after revelations the governing body spends roughly $ 30 m a month in running costs .
And with just $ 150 m in cash reserves – and the NRL ’s promise of a combined $ 60 m to clubs over the next three months – the well could dry up by July .
Penrith chief executive Brian Fletcher explained the figures to his playing group before they were sent home for an indefinite period on Wednesday .
“ I explained to them all the way money falls from Fox and Nine and then to the NRL and the clubs and to the players , ” Fletcher said on Fox League Live .
“ If it ’s a dollar from [ broadcasters ] Fox and Nine combined and it falls to 80 cents to the NRL and then the clubs and the players , well you get a 20 % pay cut .
“ They fully understand that .
They ’ve been very understanding for us because all the other staff have been put off .
They know they are in for a hair cut , they do n’t know how big it is . ”
Newton , who was only appointed to the role last week , said the union remains determined to look after its members .
“ These are clearly difficult times but we are determined to get through this together .
We will always look after our people and ensuring the appropriate support is available moving forward is key , ” Newton said .

Kanye West likens backlash over support for Trump to racial profiling .
2020-03-25 20:47:13 +00:00 .
Kanye West has reaffirmed his support for Donald Trump , whom he has previously called “ his brother ” , in a new interview with the Wall Street Journal .
West says people make assumptions about his political views because of his race , automatically assuming he would disagree with Trump ’s views .
West also compares the pushback he faces for publicly wearing his Make America Great
Again hat to racial profiling and discrimination he ’s previously encountered .
“ It reminded me of how I felt as a black guy before I was famous , when I would walk in a restaurant and people would look at you like you were going to steal something , ” the musician says .
“ ‘ This is your place , Ye , do n’t talk about apparel .
This is your place , Ye , you ’re black , so you ’re a Democrat . ’ ”
West ’s praise of Trump comes as medical experts , health officials , and growing numbers of unemployed workers criticize the president ’s response to the growing coronavirus pandemic .
The rapper was previously known for publicly attacking the inadequate federal response to a national crisis .
In 2005 , he delivered the memorable line “ George Bush does n’t care about black people ” during the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Katrina , when a ravaged New Orleans had yet to receive substantial federal assistance .
The past few days have been turbulent for West and his reality - star wife , Kim Kardashian West .
Over the weekend , the internet entered a frenzy over new leaked footage of a controversial phone call between West and Taylor Swift .
To some , the extended clip , recorded around 2015 , provided proof that West had lied about asking Swift for permission to call her a “ bitch ” in a song lyric and intentionally set out to disparage her public image .
Kardashian West spoke out against the renewed accusations , writing that Swift was “ actually lying ” .
In the interview , West also reveals that he worked closely with Trump and the White House adviser Jared Kushner to help free the rapper A$ AP Rocky , who was detained by the Swedish government for aggravated assault charges last summer .
Trump tweeted about the case following discussions with West , suggesting the rapper had a major influence on his diplomatic decision .
“ Just spoke to @KanyeWest about his friend A$ AP Rocky ’s incarceration .
I will be calling the very talented Prime Minister of Sweden to see what we can do about helping A$ AP Rocky , ” Trump said at the time .
West has previously faced blowback for praising Candace Owens , a conservative black activist , and suggesting slavery “ was a choice ” .
( West later apologized for the slavery comments . )

Bill Ackman claims firm made $2.6bn betting on coronavirus outbreak .
2020-03-25 19:32:59 +00:00 .
The hedge fund manager Bill Ackman has claimed his firm made $ 2.6bn ( £ 2.2bn ) betting that the coronavirus outbreak would cause a market crash , barely a week after warning that “ hell is coming ” for US companies .
Ackman took advantage of bond market turmoil to make almost 100 times his original outlay of $ 27 m on bets on market movements , he said on Wednesday in a post on the website of Pershing Square Capital Management .
The returns were made by buying “ credit protection on various global investment grade and high - yield credit indices ” , protecting his fund from steep stock market falls that were happening at the time .
In a post on the fund ’s website , Ackman wrote : “ On 23 March , we completed the exit of our hedges generating proceeds of $ 2.6bn for the Pershing Square funds , compared with premiums paid and commissions totaling $ 27 m. ” On 18 March Ackman tweeted that Trump should “ shut down the country for the next 30 days and close the borders ” .
In an interview with CNBC that day he said that US companies should halt share buybacks to preserve cash because “ hell is coming ” – although he also said that he was buying some stocks .
“ The hotel industry and the restaurant industry will go bankrupt first , Boeing is on the brink , Boeing will not survive without a government bailout , ” Ackman said .
However , Ackman ’s opinions appeared to change rapidly , after the US government started to move towards its $ 2tn stimulus deal .
Pershing Square starting to unwind its bets on the market falling on 23 March , only five days after he gave his warnings .
The fund used the money earned to buy shares in companies such as Warren Buffett ’s investment vehicle , Berkshire Hathaway , the Hilton hotel chain , and coffee chain Starbucks . In Wednesday ’s web post he said : “ We became increasingly positive on equity and credit markets last week , and began the process of unwinding our hedges and redeploying our capital in companies we love at bargain prices that are built to withstand this crisis , and which we believe will flourish long term . ”
The profit , if confirmed , would rank as one of the most profitable trades ever disclosed by a hedge fund .
During the global financial crisis a decade ago funds run by John Paulson made a reported $ 15bn betting against the US housing market , gaining him fees of $ 3bn .
It also represents a turnaround for Pershing , which had lost money in the first two months of the year , according to its monthly reports .
At the end of February the firm reported assets under management of $ 6.6bn .
Ackman made his name as an activist investor , buying stakes in companies and pushing for management to make changes that could profit the firm .
He co - founded Gotham Partners in the early 1990s , before starting Pershing in 2004 .

Cork racecourse to become coronavirus testing centre .
2020-03-25 17:45:32 +00:00 .
Cork racecourse will become a testing centre for coronavirus from Thursday morning as Irish racing lends its support to government efforts to stop the spread of the virus , following the suspension of all racing in Ireland until at least April 19 .
Horse Racing Ireland , which was forced to abandon its programme of staging race meetings behind closed doors on Tuesday by new government restrictions on sporting events , also said in a statement on Wednesday that it is “ working … to identify other elements of racing ’s personnel and infrastructure that could be used in the co - ordinated reaction to the crisis . ”
However , HRI also warned of the “ potentially catastrophic impact of a sustained period without racing on all sectors of the industry ” , and suggested that it will look to return to racing behind closed doors at the earliest opportunity .
Cork racecourse , near the town of Mallow , is about 30 miles from Cork City , Ireland ’s second - largest city after Dublin with a population of nearly 200,000 people .
Croke Park in Dublin , the 82,000 - seat headquarters of the Gaelic Athletic Association , opened a Covid-19 testing centre last week , and more tracks seems likely to follow Cork ’s lead in a country which has the highest number of racecourses per head of population in the world .
“ What is most important is that as a country , we do all we can individually and collectively to fight the transmission of Covid-19 and focus on our health , ” Nicky Hartery , the HRI chairman , said after a meeting of the organisation ’s board on Wednesday , “ ensuring that resources such as medical facilities and personnel are allocated where the need is most . ”
Wednesday ’s board meeting also reviewed 10 racing fixtures which had been held behind closed doors over the last fortnight and concluded that “ this experience has confirmed that a safe environment which fully respects required social distancing and hygiene measures is achievable for race fixtures ” .
A return to some form of racing programme , even if it is under the severe restrictions which were in place at meetings earlier this week , is now one of HRI ’s key priorities .
“ Similar to most industries , the racing and breeding sector will have to look forward now , ” Brian Kavanagh , HRI ’s chief executive , said .
“ We will continue our engagement with government around the supporters that are available for the many people in our industry who have now lost their jobs and whose earning capacity has dramatically reduced .
Racing and breeding supports almost 29,000 FTEs [ full - time employments ] mostly in rural Ireland and a sustained period without racing impacts thousands of those jobs .
“ When racing went behind closed doors , many staff , including bookmakers , Tote staff , catering staff and other racecourse service providers stopped earning .
As of yesterday ’s stoppage , many others , including jockeys , trainers , stable staff , media and many other service providers joined that list .
Supports will be necessary for each of these areas , and HRI will work with all parties to achieve this . ”
The suspension of racing in Ireland until at least 19 April means that the popular Irish Grand National Festival at Fairyhouse over the Easter weekend has definitely been lost , but leaves at least a glimmer of hope that the Punchestown Festival , the finale of the Irish jumps season which is due to open on 28 April , could be saved in some form .

London woman, 36, dies of suspected Covid-19 after being told she is 'not priority' .
2020-03-25 14:54:37 +00:00 .
A 36 - year - old woman died at her flat in south London of suspected Covid-19 a day after calling 999 and being told to look after herself at home .
Kayla Williams , a mother of three , died on Saturday 21 March , a day after paramedics were called to her home in Peckham .
Her husband , Fabian Williams , a refuse collector , said his wife was suffering from a cough , high fever and had severe chest and stomach pains when he called 999 on Friday .
Documents seen by the Guardian confirm paramedics were treating her as a suspected Covid-19 case .
Williams said : “ I called 999 because my wife was breathless , she was vomiting and she had pains in her stomach .
As I was talking to them she was getting worse and they told me to put her on the floor and to make her body flat . ”
When the paramedic arrived at 8.32am she carried out some tests , Williams said .
“ She told me the hospital wo n’t take her , she is not a priority .
She did not stay very long
and she went outside to write her report and posted it through the door . ”
Williams said his wife ’s condition deteriorated the next day .
He ran her a bath in the morning and helped her to get dressed , before feeding her some soup .
After taking a short rest himself , he went into the front room where she had been resting to find his wife slumped head down .
“ She was already dead , ” he said .
“ I put her on the ground – because that is what they had told me to do before – and I rang 999 again and they told me to put my hand on her chest and pump her chest . ”
Three cars and an ambulance arrived at his home a short time later , he said .
The crews tried to revive his wife , but were not successful .
Williams , 49 , said the police later visited his home , but would not enter his flat .
“ They stood on the doorstep and would not come in when I asked them to , ” he said .
They were followed an hour later by a funeral director .
“ They put on full forensic suits outside , with full masks , visors and gloves .
They covered their feet as well .
This is when I thought ; ‘ What ’s going on ?
This is not right , ’ ” he said .
Williams said the undertaker wrapped sheeting around his wife ’s face , before wrapping her body tightly and placing her in a body bag – all procedures required in an infectious disease death .
“ I have heard nothing since , ” he said .
“ They have left me here and said I must isolate .
They have n’t told me anything else .
I am a diabetic .
I take insulin .
All I know is I am supposed to isolate .
No one has mentioned her body being tested or anything . ”
Documents seen by the Guardian completed by the London Ambulance Service after their first visit show Kayla Williams was suffering from “ ?
Cov 19 ” .
Symptoms were listed as : “ non productive cough … headache … chest pains all over ” .
The advice given was “ self - care , use anti - pyretics , increase food / fluid . ” .
Fabian Williams was advised to use “ 999 for emergency , use 111 online for advice .
Family also advised to isolate ” .
A spokesperson for the London Ambulance Service said : “ We were called at 8.32am on Friday 20 March to reports of a person unwell at an address in Peckham .
Our clinicians treated a patient and advised them to call back if their condition changed .
“ We were called the following day at 3.24pm and sent a number of resources with our first medics arriving in under seven minutes .
Sadly , the patient had died .
Our sympathy is with the family at this time .
“ We are working incredibly hard in these unprecedented times to look after Londoners . ”

Barcelona in talks to cut player wages by up to 70% during coronavirus lockdown .
2020-03-25 14:39:56 +00:00 .
Barcelona are studying the possibility of applying a pay cut of up to 70 % to all of their players for as long as the coronovirus lockdown lasts in Spain .
The players are understood to be receptive to a reduction in salary and discussions are ongoing but no agreement has yet been reached .
The intention is for any measures to apply equally to every athlete at the club , from the men ’s and women ’s football teams to the B team and the Under-19s to those who play basketball , handball , futsal and roller hockey .
It would also apply to staff working with those teams .
Barcelona are the only Spanish first division football club so far to admit that they are looking into the possibility of measures to palliate the economic impact of the COVD-19 pandemic , although the league announced in a statement that it would support its members in any measures they deem necessary .
As the crisis continues , more clubs are expected to follow suit .
Labour legislation in Spain allows for companies to apply ERTEs – temporary measures to lay off staff or reduce wages in circumstances such as these – but Barcelona prefer to reach a negotiated settlement .
Staff in non - football departments are resigned to the probability that they will be affected .
The TV company that owns the rights to La Liga in Spain has announced that it will apply an ERTE to more than a thousand staff .
Barcelona held remote meetings late last week and again on Tuesday .
They had a positive response from the club captains .
The initial proposal was for the reduction to last as long as the country is in lockdown , after which the players would go back to earning 100 % of their salary , even if competition does not return and the league remains unfinished .
Spain ’s state of alarm was announced on 11 March and is set to continue until at least 11 April .
Barcelona ’s economic situation is precarious and there are concerns that they may not be able to meet some of their payments if the season is not completed .
Of an annual budget of € 1.047bn ( £ 970 m ) , 66 % was spent on wages last season , down from 70 % the season before but considered too high .
The projection was 61 % this season but that target is unlikely to be met now .

When do the clocks change – and why do they go forward? .
2020-03-25 13:51:58 +00:00 .
It is that time of year again , the ritual of trying to work out which of your electronic gadgets automatically adjusts for clock changes , and which do not .
British summer time ( BST ) officially starts at 1 am on Sunday 29 March , when the clocks go forward an hour to 2 am .
With the country in lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak , it will be one of the strangest clock changes in living memory .
With time spent outside being limited , very few people will be able to take advantage of the extended sunlight hours , and any plans for long summer evenings lounging around outside socialising look like they will have to be postponed to next year .
Those living with small children and animals will know that time for them is somewhat of an arbitrary construct , and with kids out of school and out of their usual routine , who knows what time they will wake you up on Sunday morning .
Although the number of hours of daylight vary around the globe – with fewer hours the further you are away from the equator – there is no real scientific basis for changing the clocks .
One of the foremost campaigners in the UK for the change was keen golfer William Willett in the early 20th century .
He wanted the clocks changed so he could play longer into the evenings .
He also turned out to be the great - great - grandfather of Coldplay ’s Chris Martin ( whose hits include Clocks ) .
The change was first established in the UK more than 100 years ago under the Summer Time Act 1916 , a year after Willett died .
It was not motivated so much by golf , as by the idea that it might save energy costs during the first world war .
Many countries have been re - evaluating the practice .
The European parliament recently voted to scrap it at an EU level , leaving it up to national governments to decide .
It could potentially lead to a timezone split on the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland at some points of the year .
EU member states will be able to choose whether to remain on “ permanent summer ” or “ permanent winter ” time .
Countries that want to be permanently on summer time will adjust their clocks for the final time on the last Sunday in March 2021 .
Those that opt for permanent winter time will change their clocks for the final time on the last Sunday of October 2021 .
Despite recent surveys suggesting more than 80 % of Britons would quite like to abolish daylight saving time , there does not seem to be any great political will to do so , and it is unlikely to be high on anybody ’s agenda during the coronavirus crisis .
We can look forward to regaining an hour ’s sleep when the clocks go back again as BST ends on Sunday 25 October .
And by then , hopefully we ’ll be able to go outside to appreciate the difference it makes .

Zoom: the $29bn video-call app you’d never heard of until coronavirus .
2020-03-25 12:29:12 +00:00 .
Appearance : That thing that reminds you what your parents look like .
Oh , you ’re a Zoom guy ?
Why , what ’s your video - call tool of choice ?
WhatsApp ?
Facebook Messenger ?
Houseparty ?
Skype ?
Google Hangouts ?
FaceTime ?
You ’re making me feel dizzy .
Well , that ’s to be expected .
Now we ’re all under lockdown , we get to witness all the big video - calling apps fight each other to the death for dominance .
By the time the coronavirus outbreak is over , at least one of these services will end up as the video - conferencing version of Betamax .
Please say it ’ll be Facebook Messenger .
Unlikely .
As things stand , Facebook Messenger is the only app that has a filter that turns your head into a foot .
People need that sort of thing these days .
Then will it be Zoom ?
Again , probably not .
Physical distancing has been a blessing for Zoom .
Nobody had heard of it a fortnight ago ; all of a sudden , it ’s worth $ 29bn ( almost double its valuation when it went public in April 2019 ) .
Why ?
Because it ’s crossplatform and free for unlimited one - to - one calls .
Wait , so I have to pay for group calls ?
Yes .
With groups of up to 100 , you get 40 minutes free .
After that , it ’s £ 11.99 a month to run a call .
That sucks .
No it does n’t .
It ’s brilliant .
Why ?
Have you done any video - conferencing yet ?
It ’s terrible .
It ’s full of people talking over each other , or muttering , or standing in noisy rooms that drown out all conversation .
Also , no one seems to know how to satisfactorily end a video call .
They go on and on and on .
I think 40 minutes is plenty .
But the pricing is the only downside ?
Well , that and the pornography .
Pardon ?
Ah , let me introduce you to Zoombombing , where trolls join a video chat and , instead of showing their face , broadcast pornography to everyone else in the group .
That ’s horrible .
Yes – but , simultaneously , much less boring than a 9 am work meeting .
So Zoom is here to stay .
At least until the stay - at - home rules are lifted and everyone can just go to the pub again .
Frankly , that ca n’t come quickly enough .
Because you miss interaction ?
No , because I hate interaction !
The past few days have been a nightmare !
Everyone keeps checking in on me !
I ’ve spoken to more people in the past 48 hours than in the two months before that combined !
Why does everyone have to see each other all the time ?
What ’s wrong with a text ?
Wow , you ’re a monster .
Yes !
I ’m a busy monster .
Leave me alone !
Do say : “ In my day , we did n’t have apps such as Zoom to keep us permanently connected in times of isolation . ”

Prince Charles tests positive for coronavirus .
2020-03-25 12:05:09 +00:00 .
Prince Charles has tested positive for coronavirus and is self - isolating at his home in Scotland , Clarence House said today .
Charles , 71 , is said to be “ up and about ” and in “ good spirits ” and has continued to work for the last few days .
Doctors believe the earliest he would have been contagious was on 13 March .
He last saw the Queen on 12 March , following an investiture .
His last public engagement was also on 12 March , though he has held private meetings since then .
Buckingham Palace said : “ Her Majesty the Queen remains in good health .
The Queen last saw the Prince of Wales briefly on the morning of 12 March and is following all the appropriate advice with regard to her welfare . ”
It is not known whether the Queen has also been tested .
Charles was tested on Monday , after qualifying for an NHS test due to age and medical condition criteria in Aberdeenshire .
He received the results on Tuesday .
It is thought he was tested at Birkhall , his home on the Queen ’s Balmoral estate in Aberdeenshire .
Medical advice is that it is unlikely that his condition will escalate into a more serious case .
He is thought to first have displayed symptoms over the weekend .
Clarence House said in a statement : “ The Prince of Wales has tested positive for coronavirus .
He has been displaying mild symptoms but otherwise remains in good health and has been working from home throughout the last few days as usual .
The Duchess of Cornwall has also been tested but does not have the virus .
In accordance with government and medical advice , the prince and the duchess are now self - isolating at home in Scotland .
The tests were carried out by the NHS in Aberdeenshire where they met the criteria required for testing .
“ It is not possible to ascertain from whom the prince caught the virus owing to the high number of engagements he carried out in his public role during recent weeks . ”
Camilla is self - isolating separately from Charles at Birkhall and will carry on doing so for 14 days .
No details have been made public about exactly what symptoms Charles has displayed , except that they were mild .
He and the duchess travelled to Birkhall on Sunday , where there is a small team of domestic staff who will remain there , sources have said .
The couple are said not to be interacting with that small team of staff in any way .
Charles is understood to have since spoken both to the Duke of Cambridge , who is in Norfolk , and the Duke of Sussex , who is on Vancouver Island .
Since his last public engagements on 12 March Charles has held a small number of private meetings at Highgrove , his home in Gloucestershire , on Duchy of Cornwall business .
The people he interacted with during those meetings have been informed , though it is not known whether they have been tested .
All senior members of the royal family were together on 9 March at the Commonwealth Day service .

Johanna Konta dwelling on uncertain future with Olympics delay .
2020-03-24 22:43:06 +00:00 .
Tennis , already frozen in the sunshine , took another hit on Tuesday – along with the rest of sport – when the Tokyo Olympics were postponed , and Johanna Konta is feeling the chill more than some .
The British No 1 is no more than “ hopeful ” about Wimbledon , which is due to start on 29 June , shortly before the now delayed Olympics .
Konta , still working through rehab on a knee injury that has slowed her progress for more than a year , said : “ Even just a few weeks ago , who knew we would be in this situation , constantly changing – and changing rapidly ?
Everyone is hopeful that the constant change could bring us a change for the better as well . ”
The men ’s and women ’s tours , already shut down until 7 June with only a tentative commitment to resume in time for Wimbledon , now have seen the non - grand - slam centrepiece of their season crumble .
As a member of the WTA ’s player council , Konta reckons the enforced pause could give the game time to “ thrash out the best course for tournaments , players , everybody , with [ frozen ] rankings and all those sorts of things ” .
That , at least , was her agenda linked to the recent past , when Indian Wells was cancelled a month ago and the European clay season then put on hold .
Konta has to dwell now on the inconvenient present and an uncertain future .
She carries on in isolation – protecting against coronavirus , of course , but also in the absence of the backup normally available for elite players with injury .
“ I got back from the US about 10 days ago .
I have some equipment at home so I am able to train , but it ’s by no means ideal .
I am trying to make the best of the situation .
This is not ideal for the knee .
I do n’t have access to the equipment that I specifically need : team , physio , fitness trainer , the best method to get the kind of stimulus that we want for the body and the knee .
But I ’m not getting too stressed over it . ”
Until Monday , Konta was visiting the National Tennis Centre in Roehampton but the facility has closed in line with government guidelines on isolation .
“ I ca n’t bring what I need into the flat .
I need a leg - press machine .
That specific knee exercise , I ca n’t do right now .
In this country , athletes still have access to our respective training grounds , as long as the necessary precautions are observed .
But the goalposts are moving . ”
As for Wimbledon , she said : “ I think more than anything it ’s important to be hopeful .
Nothing wrong with being hopeful .
For me , it ’s about not looking too far ahead ; we do n’t know how it is going to develop .
Now we know we are not playing until the beginning of June , that ’s the date we are working towards .
When that changes , if it changes , we react to whatever comes next . ”
Meanwhile she and her photographer partner , Jackson Wade , are holed up in their London flat as Konta keeps in touch with her parents in Eastbourne , and she is desperate to see them once travel restrictions are lifted .
She is baking a chocolate chip banana loaf – which she ’d like to share , but ca n’t – and trying to keep her dog , Bono , from upsetting her 1,000 - piece jigsaw puzzle .
“ The next few months could be quite long , ” she says with a smile .
“ Who knows ? ”

Coronavirus in the Pacific: weekly briefing .
2020-03-24 21:10:18 +00:00 .
The Covid-19 pandemic became very real in the Pacific islands this week , as the region recorded its first death and the total number of confirmed cases climbed to 57 , as of Tuesday afternoon .
Though the number of cases is relatively small , fear and misinformation surrounding the virus is widespread , so starting today , each Wednesday the Guardian will be publishing a round - up of coronavirus news from the region .
Strains on public infrastructure and equipment are already appearing .
Vanuatu has only two respirators , and other countries are similarly ill - equipped .
Many countries are reliant on having to send samples overseas for testing .
Economic prospects for the region , which is heavily dependent on tourism , are dire .
Calls for an international bail - out are already circulating in policy circles .
Papua New Guinea :
A two - week state of emergency began on Tuesday , with measures including stopping all domestic flights ; no movement from one province to another for a 14 - day period except for approved cargo , medicine and security personnel ; the bringing froward of school holidays to start on Monday 23 March ; all non - essential workers to stay at home ; and for all people who arrived in Papua New Guinea from 7 March to report in to a government hotline .
The Australian government has provided an additionaln US$ 500,000 ( PGK1.7 m ) to assist with preparations for dealing with the impacts of Covid-19 .
Fiji : The city of Lautoka , where the first three cases were detected , is in lockdown with road blocks and patrols .
The military has been called up to assist with perimeter security .
The government is urgently seeking 82 passengers on three flights , whom they believe may have been in contact with the confirmed cases .
The prime minister has urged people to avoid non - essential travel within Fiji .
Solomon Islands : the country announced a 90 - day ban on arrivals of cruise ships and yachts on 20 March and has reduced international flights .
All international travellers are required to self - isolate for 14 days on arrival .
Vanuatu : State - owned carrier Air Vanuatu has suspended all international flight operations .
Inbound travel on other carriers is restricted to citizens , residents , diplomatic corps and humanitarian workers responding to the Covid-19 crisis .
Samoa : A state of emergency has been declared and borders are closed .
Public gatherings are restricted to no more than five people .
Failure to comply may lead to a fine of up to US$ 3,400 or a period of imprisonment of two years .
Tonga : A state of emergency has been declared .
Borders are now closed .
Nightclubs and bars will be closed from 25 March and gatherings of more than 20 are prohibited .
In Samoa a young woman who had been tested for Covid-19 endured harassment after her name was published in the media and the prime minister revealed the name of her village in a radio show .
It was later confirmed that the woman ’s test has come back negative .
-
Odo Tevi , former Vanuatu ambassador to the United Nations .
Resorts have emptied of tourists , and some countries have found their spacious and secluded grounds useful quarantine sites .
One young mother stuck in Noumea with two children said she ’d never stayed in such posh digs in her life .

Trump flounders in the pandemic – but goes from Nero to hero in a week | Arwa Mahdawi .
2020-03-24 13:36:38 +00:00 .
Just a few weeks ago , I was confident that Donald Trump ’s days in the White House were numbered .
The economy was tanking ; coronavirus cases were soaring .
And what was the president doing ?
Calling the coronavirus a “ hoax ” and mindlessly tweeting .
On the same day , the Dow Jones plunged more than 2,000 points and Trump cheerfully retweeted a doctored photo of him playing a violin , remarking : “ Who knows what this means , but it sounds good to me ! ”
“ Nero ” immediately started trending .
Trump may be fiddling while the world burns , but , over the past week , he has sharply changed his tune .
The guy who recently assured us that Covid-19 would “ like a miracle … disappear ” now insists that , actually , he knew it was “ a pandemic long before it was called a pandemic ” .
Having realised he ca n’t just bluster coronavirus away , Trump has rewritten the past , adopted a newly sombre tone and reinvented himself as a “ wartime ” president .
Last Monday , Trump finally admitted the gravity of the situation and announced a 15 - day plan to “ slow the spread ” of the virus .
Trump ’s new pandemic persona has been playing well .
Last Tuesday , CNN ’s chief political correspondent , Dana Bash , lavished praise on the president .
“ He is being the kind of leader that people need , ” Bash told viewers , “ in a tone that people need and want and yearn for in times of crisis and uncertainty . ”
The public seems to agree .
A poll released on Friday by ABC News and Ipsos found that 55 % of Americans approve of the way Trump is handling the Covid-19 crisis .
That is a 12 % increase from a poll taken on 11 - 12 March .
A Morning Consult poll conducted from Tuesday to Friday last week similarly found that 53 % of Americans approve of the way he has dealt with the pandemic .
Trump has managed to turn himself from Nero to hero in a week .
This is incredible , when you consider the fact that he has not done anything substantial ; he has just acknowledged that Covid-19 may be more serious than the flu after all .
But that is the beauty of setting an incredibly low bar for yourself ; it is easy to fail upwards .
Alas , it seems as if a week of halfheartedly listening to global health experts has proved too much for Trump .
On Sunday night , clearly frustrated that the stock market keeps diving , he tweeted : “ WE CANNOT LET THE CURE BE WORSE THAN THE PROBLEM ITSELF . ”
In a press conference on Monday , he announced that the US will be open for business soon , and seemed to reject the idea that restrictive public health measures would continue for months .
What does that mean exactly ?
Who knows .
The only thing that is clear at the moment is that Trump cares more about the health of the stock market than the health of Americans .
It is easy to dump on Trump , but it is not like the Democrats have inspired much confidence during this crisis either .
Nancy Pelosi , the house speaker , recently shot down an idea to send cheques to every American because she wanted to means - test the payments ; not exactly a way to win hearts and minds .
Meanwhile , Joe Biden , the presumptive presidential nominee , was missing in action for most of last week ; his absence caused # WhereIsJoe to trend on Twitter and sparked conspiracy theories that the 77 - year - old is ill .
A source told ABC that Biden desperately wanted to be in daily contact with Americans , but was facing a few logistical challenges to video briefings ; the ceilings in his home were low , you see , making lighting a challenge .
If Biden ca n’t figure out a home studio , I do n’t know how he is going to solve a global health crisis .
Unless coronavirus kills us all first , it seems highly likely that we have another four years of Trump to look forward to .

Boris Johnson orders UK lockdown to be enforced by police .
2020-03-23 20:56:32 +00:00 .
Boris Johnson will order police to enforce a strict coronavirus lockdown , with a ban on gatherings of more than two people and strict limits on exercise , as he told the British public : “ You must stay at home . ”
The prime minister ratcheted up Britain ’s response with an address to the nation on Monday evening , warning that people will only be allowed outside to buy food or medication , exercise alone once a day , or to travel to work if absolutely necessary .
All non - essential shops will close with immediate affect , as will playgrounds and libraries , he said in the address from Downing Street .
After days of being accused of sending mixed messages about what the public should do , Johnson significantly escalated his language as he urged people to comply with the new , more stringent measures .
“ You should not be meeting friends .
If your friends ask you to meet , you should say No .
You should not be meeting family members who do not live in your home .
You should not be going shopping except for essentials like food and medicine – and you should do this as little as you can , ” he said .
“ If you do n’t follow the rules the police will have the powers to enforce them , including through fines and dispersing gatherings . ”
The decision follows Friday ’s announcement that all pubs , restaurants and gyms should shut down .
It came after commuters packed on to trains on Monday , and sun - seekers crowded into parks over the weekend .
After weeks of being reluctant to copy draconian measures seen elsewhere in Europe , Johnson announced the plan having come under pressure from his own cabinet and Tory backbenchers as well as Labour .
“ In this fight we can be in no doubt that each and every one of us is directly enlisted .
Each and every one of us is now obliged to join together .
To halt the spread of this disease .
To protect our NHS and to save many many thousands of lives , ” he said .
“ And I know that as they have in the past so many times , the people of this country will rise to that challenge .
And we will come through it stronger than ever . ”
It is understood that Johnson himself had until now been holding out against a lockdown , with senior advisers such as Dominic Cummings having pushed for tougher measures in the last week , after initially backing a more relaxed approach .
In the past few days , there had been concern about announcing a lockdown before police have the proper powers to enforce one – which will only come into law with the emergency coronavirus legislation later in the week .
However , Johnson has been pressured into action by the scale of worry in his own party and signs that the UK ’s deaths from coronavirus are following the same pattern as Italy with a two - week lag .
The total confirmed death toll rose to 335 on Monday – a sixfold increase on this time last week .
“ Without a huge national effort to halt the growth of this virus , there will come a moment when no health service in the world could possibly cope ; because there wo n’t be enough ventilators , enough intensive care beds , enough doctors and nurses , ” Johnson said .
“ And as we have seen elsewhere , in other countries that also have fantastic health care systems , that is the moment of real danger .
To put it simply , if too many people become seriously unwell at one time , the NHS will be unable to handle it - meaning more people are likely to die , not just from coronavirus but from other illnesses as well .
So it ’s vital to slow the spread of the disease . ”

London Covid-19 doctor says soon staff will be forced to choose whose life to save .
2020-03-23 14:09:36 +00:00 .
Rosena Allin - Khan , the Labour MP for Tooting and an A&E doctor , is still working regular shifts .
On Sunday she worked at St George ’s hospital in her south London constituency .
She explains how the coronavirus pandemic has affected staff : I ’ve been an A&E doctor for 15 years , and I ’ve never seen anything like this before .
The departments are quieter because people are staying away from hospital , but the patients are sicker .
We ’re seeing a distinct rise in the numbers coming in with respiratory symptoms , who are testing Covid-19 positive .
On Saturday , very early in the morning , the entire resuscitation department , where the absolute sickest patients go , was full to capacity with patients with breathing difficulties .
We had to move other very ill patients to the paediatric resuscitation area to keep them safe .
This is only set to get worse .
We ’re seeing patients now who would have only contracted the virus two weeks ago .
In the coming 10 days we expect the entire A&E department will be taken up with suspected Covid-19 patients .
Doctors and nurses are brave , and the A&E department is known for being on the frontline and high risk , but there ’s a palpable fear among staff for three reasons .
Firstly , they ’re frightened for their own health and those of the people they love .
When I finished my shift yesterday , which was Mother ’s Day , I came back to the house and I could n’t touch or hug my two little girls until I put all my clothes in the wash and had a shower .
The second reason is that staff expect , very soon , potentially to have to make heart - wrenching choices about whose life can be saved if we do n’t have enough ventilators .
That goes counter to everything you ’ve ever learned as a doctor or nurse – to make life - and - death decisions , where we could possibly have saved every one of those people , is unimaginable .
This is what our colleagues in Italy are living through now .
Third , the patterns described thus far for symptoms of coronavirus are not what we ’re now seeing in the emergency department .
We ’re seeing young , previously very healthy people , who are ill in hospital .
Some are in their 30s , and they need ventilators to stay alive .
Some patients are presenting with abdominal pain , which we had n’t heard of before .
A person can come in and say they have a stomach pain , and they ’re put in the “ green ” area of the department – but then they mention they also have a cough .
Everybody should be assumed to be Covid - positive until proven otherwise at this point .
There ’s also a real concern among staff around the country about personal protective equipment .
They either do n’t have any , or if they do many feel it ’s being rationed .
It ’s very hard to listen to some colleagues say that as a result of there not being enough equipment to go round , they ’re resigned to catching the virus – it ’s just a matter of when .
On social distancing , the messaging from the government has n’t been clear enough .
Angela Merkel , the German chancellor , has banned public gatherings of more than two people .
It ’s clear and easy to understand .
There has to be no ambiguity in the language because people ’s lives depend on it .
Some people are treating this as a holiday – but without correct distancing measures it ’s a disaster waiting to happen .
When we are faced in the coming weeks with choices about who gets the last ventilator and who does n’t , it will be that young person who has gone out socialising , who has ignored advice , who get it .
That means someone else ’s mother may not .

Heaven can wait: what will happen to the films delayed by coronavirus? .
2020-03-23 09:25:51 +00:00 .
We are entering new territory for the movies : thanks to Covid-19 , major titles have been pulled from release , in anticipation of plummeting audiences or cinemas shutting altogether .
Will the entire schedule be rejigged to ensure an even flow ?
Or will there be a post - pandemic movie glut ?
Will some movies decide to release over streaming services instead ?
And will anybody want to see these films when they finally get released ?
Usually when a release is delayed it is for one of several reasons .
Often , it is simply because everyone knows the film sucks .
Or it is down to internal battles , as with Kenneth Lonergan ’s Margaret , filmed in 2005 but held up by studio disputes over its 165 - minute length .
A 150 - minute cut eventually surfaced , to rave reviews – but six years later , which killed the buzz somewhat .
Sometimes , it is down to controversy , as with the “ video nasties ” of the 1980s , which were eventually un - banned in the 1990s and 2000s , triggering a spike in cannibalism and chainsaw massacres .
And , sometimes , it is down to timing , as with the trigger - happy horror The Hunt , whose autumn 2019 release was pulled in response to the El Paso and Dayton mass shootings .
In the intervening period , Trump denounced the movie , which saved on its marketing budget , although it did n’t help The Hunt ’s box office takings when it limped into cinemas a few weeks ago .
This time round , though , the delays are through no fault of the movies or their makers .
Will they feel out of date by the time they arrive ?
Does it make a difference if we get No Time to Die in November rather than April ?
Or Furious 9 a year later ?
Vin Diesel might have a whole new look by then !
Other titles are seasonally specific .
It made perfect sense to put out Peter Rabbit 2 for the Easter holidays .
Similarly , a musical such as Spielberg ’s West Side Story has “ family - friendly Christmas movie ” written all over it .
It is unlikely to want to budge from its prime December slot .
If there is a high - profile postponement in The Great Pause , it could be the X - Men spin - off The New Mutants .
Enticingly pitched as “ Stephen King meets John Hughes ” , it was filmed in mid-2017 with a view to a 2018 release .
That date has shifted many times since , due to alleged creative disputes , reshoots ( since denied ) and Disney ’s takeover of its studio , Fox .
Just when it was due , this April , coronavirus has snatched it away again .
Today ’s no - shows could take consolation from Orson Welles ’s The Other Side of the Wind : begun in 1970 , made in fits and starts , abandoned , lost , then finally restored and completed in 2018 , three decades after the deaths of Welles , lead actor John Huston and most of the cast .
It is a wayward masterpiece whose absurdly protracted genesis only enhances the experience .
There is a lesson here : if the delay drags on for long enough , it ’s no longer a story , it becomes a legend .

Coronavirus live news: One in three Americans must stay home as Germany bans meetings of more than two .
2020-03-23 00:09:22 +00:00 .
8.02pm EDT 20:02
Nearly one in three Americans under orders to stay home Nearly one in three Americans was under orders on Sunday to stay home to slow the spread of the coronavirus pandemic as Ohio , Louisiana and Delaware became the latest states to enact broad restrictions , Reuters reports .
Paul Habans Charter School hands out supplies including food , books and computers to students and the community as Louisiana schools close for one month due to the spread of coronavirus on March 17 , 2020 in New Orleans , Louisiana .
Photograph : Chris Graythen / Getty Images
The three states join New York , California , Illinois , Connecticut and New Jersey , home to 101 million Americans combined , as cases nationwide neared 34,000 , according to Johns Hopkins University figures .
“ Every piece of evidence that I can lay my hands on indicates that we ’re at an absolutely crucial time in this war and what we do now will make all the difference in the world , ” said Ohio Governor Mike DeWine .
“ What we do now will slow this invader .
It will slow this invader so our healthcare system ... will have time to treat casualties . ”
Ohio has 351 cases and three deaths , while Louisiana has 837 cases and 20 deaths , several in a senior - care facility .
Louisiana has the third highest number of cases per capita and saw a 10 - fold increase in cases in the past week , Governor John Bel Edwards said .
Ohio ’s order will go into effect at midnight EDT on Monday and stay in effect until April 6 .
Louisiana ’s order goes into effect at 5 p.m. CDT on Monday and lasts through April 12 .
Delaware ’s order starts at 8 a.m. EDT on Tuesday .
In Kentucky , non - essential businesses must close by 8 p.m. EDT on Monday but authorities stopped short of ordering residents to stay home .
7.57pm EDT 19:57
Summary
Hi , this Helen Sullivan .
I ’ll bringing you key developments in the coronavirus pandemic for the next few hours , as we navigate a crisis that has seen around one billion people worldwide confined to their homes .
As the virus continues to spread , governments are introducing stricter isolation measures and enforcement procedures , as well as financial plans in an attempt weaken its economic impact .
A European clinical trial involving some 3,200 people has been launched to test four possible experimental coronavirus treatments .
First cases of the virus have been confirmed in Syria , as well as Grenada and Mozambique .
About 1.5 million UK residents who are particularly vulnerable to coronavirus will be contacted by the NHS and advised to stay at home for 12 weeks .
There have been 48 new deaths in the UK and 112 in France .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has gone into quarantine after a doctor who gave her a vaccine tests positive for coronavirus .
Germany has banned meetings of over two people , they are about work on slowing the spread of the coronavirus .
23 people have died and 83 have been left injured in overnight prison riots in Bogota as inmates demanded better protection against contamination .
The death toll in the northern region of Lombardy rose by around 360 in a day to more than 3,450 .
The area has borne the brunt of Italy ’s virus outbreak .
Spain will ask parliament to extend the state of emergency for another 15 days until April 11 a state of emergency it imposed this month to try to curb the spread of the virus .
Dubai carrier Emirates reversed a previous announcement suspending all passenger flights , saying it is going to continue flying to 13 destinations , including the the U.S. , the UK , Japan , Australia and Canada .

No 10 denies claim Dominic Cummings argued to 'let old people die' .
2020-03-22 12:25:30 +00:00 .
Downing Street has rejected as “ a highly defamatory fabrication ” a claim that Boris Johnson ’s chief adviser , Dominic Cummings , initially argued against strict measures to contain coronavirus in a view summarised as “ if that means some pensioners die , too bad ” .
In an unusual on - the - record denunciation , a Downing Street spokesman said the claims about Cummings ’ viewpoint , made in a Sunday Times article , had not been put to No 10 in advance and contained “ invented ” quotes .
The report claimed that at one private event at the end of February , Cummings outlined then government ’s strategy at the time in a way that was summarised by some present as “ herd immunity , protect the economy , and if that means some pensioners die , too bad . ”
The allegations , which have been widely shared online , connect with wider criticisms that the government response to the virus was initially too weak , based on a notion that rather than limiting its spread , enough people could be allowed to contract it to give population - wide “ herd immunity ” .
While the phrase “ herd immunity ” was used by government figures such as Sir Patrick Vallance , the chief scientific adviser , No 10 has denied it was ever a tactic .
However , the use of the phrase illustrated initial tensions within government over how to balance the economic impact of a full national lockdown against the potential number of deaths from the virus .
According to the Sunday Times report , the key moment came on 12 March when a group of government experts gathered to examine modelling of the spread of the virus carried out by academics at Imperial College London and elsewhere .
This predicted that if no action was taken more than half a million people would die , and that even some limited mitigation efforts would only halve this .
The Sunday Times report said this changed the mind of Cummings , who before had been an adherent of the herd immunity idea .
After the 12 March meeting , Cummings changed his view and became one of the strongest advocates in government for tough restrictions to curb the spread of the virus , the Sunday Times said .
It quoted one anonymous senior Conservative as saying : “ He ’s gone from ‘ herd immunity and let the old people die ’ to ‘ let ’s shut down the country and the economy ’ . ”
The Downing Street spokesman said : “ This is a highly defamatory fabrication which was not put to No 10 by the Sunday Times before publication .
The article also includes a series of apparent quotes from meetings which are invented . ”
Cummings is already a controversial figure within government .
The former Vote Leave strategist is regularly portrayed as an ideologue and hidden power over Johnson .
In January , Cummings ’ call for”misfits and weirdos ” to work in No 10 led to the appointment of Andrew Sabisky , who soon had to step down because of previously stated views on subjects ranging from black people ’s IQs to whether benefits claimants should be encouraged to have fewer children .
It later emerged that in his own prior writings , Cummings had suggested that the NHS should cover the cost of selecting babies to have higher IQs .

Coronavirus in Australia: 18 infections from Ruby Princess contribute to largest daily rise in cases .
2020-03-22 06:32:13 +00:00 .
Backpacker parties in Bondi and the Ruby Princess cruise ship which docked in Circular Quay have been identified as key vectors in a record rise in Covid-19 infections in NSW , as Australia recorded its largest single - day increase since the outbreak began .
Victoria added 67 to take its total 296 , Western Australia recorded 30 , to bring its total to 120 , and the ACT added 10 cases , more than doubling its total to 19 .
Across Australia there are now 1,316 confirmed cases of coronavirus , including 213 new cases in 24 hours .
Seven people have died .
NSW now has 533 confirmed cases , Queensland 259 , Tasmania 17 and the Northern Territory five .
More than 2,700 people were allowed to disembark from the Ruby Princess at Sydney ’s Circular Quay , despite more than 150 cases of illness being logged onboard .
So far , 18 people from that ship have tested positive , including some who caught domestic flights across the country after disembarking .
NSW Health released statistics showing 97 new cases of Covid-19 had been diagnosed in the state in the 24 hours to Saturday night .
The total number of cases in NSW is 533 , 40 % of Australia ’s total .
“ Several new diagnoses of Covid-19 have been made in backpackers in the Bondi area , ” NSW Health said in a statement .
“ There were two recent parties that some of the cases attended where the cases may have acquired their infections .
People who also attended these parties should be on alert for symptoms of Covid-19 and immediately isolate themselves if any symptoms develop . ”
NSW Health cited the Boogie Wonderland party at Bucket List , on Bondi Beach , on the evening of Sunday 15 March , and a party at Club 77 in Darlinghurst , from midnight Sunday to 4 am Monday .
Bondi Beach was the centre of global attention after more than 20,000 packed the beach on Friday in defiance of social distancing measures urged by health authorities and a ban from the federal government on all gatherings of more than 500 people .
In response , the NSW government closed the beach .
Bondi , Tamarama and Bronte beaches remained closed on Sunday with shorelines fenced off , and the lockout enforced by police .
The Ruby Princess was one of four cruise ships that had been allowed an exemption to an Australia - wide 30 - day ban on foreign ships , and authorities made the decision to allow passengers to disembark after assessing there was a “ very low risk ” of coronavirus .
Passengers were allowed to go home , on condition they self - isolate for 14 days .
Some flew on domestic flights , including to the Northern Territory .
Now 18 passengers have tested positive for Covid-19 .
The NSW health minister , Brad Hazzard , said that in hindsight he would have waited for coronavirus test results before allowing passengers to disembark .
“ If I had my opportunity to have my two bob ’s worth , with the benefit of what we now know about those … people , I ’d have said yeah ,
maybe we should hold them on the ship , ” he said .
The Ruby Princess was carrying 2,647 passengers and 1,148 crew .
The majority of the crew stayed on board to remain in isolation .
The ship is currently at sea off the NSW coast , south of Sydney .
Four other cruise ships which docked in Sydney
have also been linked to Covid-19 cases : Voyager of the Seas ( two cases ) , which docked on 7 March and 18 March ; the Ovation of the Seas ( two cases ) , which docked on 18 March ; and the Celebrity Solstice ( one case reported in New Zealand ) , which docked on 20 March .
Sixty - nine people in Australia have recovered from a confirmed case of Covid-19 .

A lasagne the size of Wembley - WhatsApp joke swallowed whole .
2020-03-21 07:15:36 +00:00 .
It started off as an ad - libbed joke for some friends in a football banter group and ended up being heard by vast numbers of Britons within hours .
But the man responsible for a joke WhatsApp audio clip that claimed the Ministry of Defence was about to requisition Wembley Stadium to cook the world ’s biggest lasagne has said his viral success also shows the risks of believing everything that gets sent to you on the messaging service .
Billy McLean , a 29 - year - old Londoner who works in software sales , came forward to the Guardian to identify himself as the creator of the much - shared clip mocking the coronavirus misinformation and rumours that have spread over WhatsApp in recent days .
Parodying the widespread viral posts claiming to be from friends - of - friends who are supposedly government officials with the inside track on No 10 ’s pandemic plans , McLean ad - libbed an audio recording in a matter - of - fact voice : “ My sister , her boyfriend ’s brother works for the Ministry of Defence and one of the things that they ’re doing to prepare … is building a massive lasagne .
At the moment , as we speak , they ’re building the massive lasagne sheets . ”
He added : “ They ’re putting the underground heating at Wembley on , that ’s going to bake the lasagne , and then they ’re putting the roof across and that ’s going to recreate the oven , and then what they ’re going to do is lift it up with drones and cut off little portions and drop it off to people ’s houses . ”
He sent the clip , at 1 pm on Thursday , to a group of 30 friends he plays football with .
Some of them then forwarded it to friends and relatives in other groups .
Hours later , it was being sent back to McLean by friends who had no idea it was his voice , having travelled around the world in the intervening hours .
McLean said : “ It was just a one take .
I sent it to the football group , my mum and the girl that I ’m trying to date .
“ It went around the football group .
Then I got people that I know forwarding it to me , not knowing it was me , or forwarding it to me asking if I ’d heard it .
Ex - girlfriends were coming out of the woodwork asking was it me . ”
By Friday morning , the Football Association was able to confirm that , yes , it was indeed aware of the clip but , no , it had no plans to turn the English national football stadium into a giant lasagne dish .
The spread of the clip shows both the enormous power of WhatsApp to spread unsourced information at speed and Britons ’ need for something to laugh at in a grim period .
WhatsApp ’s lack of an ability to track or factcheck material means that the clip was arriving in people ’s messaging service as an unlabelled audio clip .
Although there is no way to measure its audience , it is likely to have been listened to by millions of people within hours .
Many more have since heard it after it was uploaded to other services .
McLean suggested that people needed to resist the urge to share unsourced information about the coronavirus , especially those claiming to be from insiders .
“ The intentions are good but the outcome most of the time is pretty bad , it makes people panic more , ” he said .
“ There ’s no validation for what ’s being said in the messages . ”
He said people needed to have their wits about them when it comes to seeking out trustworthy news in the crisis : “ If someone sitting at home in their boxers selling software can save a one - minute clip and make it go viral , you ’ve got be aware that anyone can put anything out and it might not be valid . ”

Kenny Rogers, country music star, dies aged 81 .
2020-03-21 07:06:53 +00:00 .
Kenny Rogers , the Grammy award - winning country music icon , has died at 81 .
Rogers “ passed away peacefully at home from natural causes under the care of hospice and surrounded by his family , ” according to a statement by representative Keith Hagan .
The statement posted on Saturday said he died at home in Sandy Springs , Georgia , from natural causes .
Rogers ’ family is planning a private service out of concern for the national coronavirus emergency .
A public memorial to celebrate his life will be held at a later date .
Rogers topped the charts during the 1970s and 1980s , and won three Grammy awards .
He was best known for his hit song The Gambler , released in 1978 .
He went on to star in TV movies based on The Gambler and other songs .
Rogers worked for some 60 years before retiring from touring in 2017 aged 79 .
Despite his crossover success , he always preferred to be thought of as a country singer .
Rogers was raised in public housing in Houston Heights with seven siblings .
As a 20 - year - old , he had a gold single called That Crazy Feeling , under the name Kenneth Rogers , but when that early success stalled , he joined a jazz group , the Bobby Doyle Trio , as a standup bass player .
But his breakthrough came when he was asked to join the New Christy Minstrels , a folk group , in 1966 .
The band reformed as First Edition and scored a pop hit with the psychedelic song , Just Dropped In ( To See What Condition My Condition Was In ) .
Rogers and First Edition mixed country - rock and folk on songs like Ruby , Do n’t Take Your Love To Town , a story of a Vietnam veteran begging his girlfriend to stay .
After the group broke up in 1974 , Rogers started his solo career and found a big hit with the country ballad Lucille , in 1977 , which crossed over to the pop charts and earned Rogers his first Grammy .

Andy Carroll leads Newcastle squad whip-round to get kit man new hip .
2020-03-20 22:45:38 +00:00 .
Andy Carroll has had no shortage of criticism over the years – some of it deserved – but George Ramshaw refuses to hear a bad word about the Newcastle United striker .
A fortnight before football ’s coronavirus - induced shutdown , Newcastle ’s assistant kit man returned to work at the club ’s training ground with a spring in his step .
Thanks to a whip - round of Steve Bruce ’s first - teamers , initiated by Carroll , Ramshaw had a new hip .
After raising around £ 15,000 to fund his surgery at a private hospital on Tyneside , the players were delighted to see their old friend back .
Ramshaw is coy about his age – “ let ’s just say I ’m a pensioner , ” is how he puts it
– but he is believed to be in his 70s .
“ George the kit man has been here since the year dot , ” said Newcastle ’s manager .
“ The players paid for his hip operation .
It was a lovely touch .
Footballers get much maligned these days but they sent him off to get it done privately .
I think it might have been Andy Carroll ’s initial idea .
Andy , of course , has known George for a long time .
“ He ’d only just come back to work in the past couple of weeks and he ’s all fixed and healed .
It seems to have been a big success .
We were all thrilled to see him back because George is a lovely , lovely man .
He ’s as good as gold now .
Before we closed down he was jumping around the place ; I thought he ’d be playing soon . ”
There was a time when he might have given Carroll and company a run for their money .
Ramshaw was a leading amateur player , who starred for the immensely successful non - league Whitley Bay side of the 1950s and 1960s .
During the 1960s he also represented the Great Britain amateur side , variously touring and playing in Zambia , Tanzania , Uganda and Iceland and the former Rhodesia .
After hanging up his boots he moved into coaching and became assistant manager at Gateshead before joining Kevin Keegan ’s Newcastle in 1995 as assistant kit manager , looking after the reserves .
“ I ’m eternally grateful to the players
, ” said Ramshaw from his home in Hebburn .
“ I was in a lot of pain with my hip and it would have been months before I could get an operation through the NHS given how busy they are .
“ The players said : ‘ Can we do something ? ’ to our club doctor , Paul Catterson , and he put it in motion with the Nuffield .
Within a fortnight , I was in and had it done .
All the lads came together and put in .
Me and my wife are both very grateful .
“ I ’m feeling great now .
I was off for about four months but I ’m back full - time now – or at least when the training ground reopens .
It ’s champion . ”

'We must work together': Gareth Southgate's message to England fans .
2020-03-20 10:13:33 +00:00 .
Gareth Southgate has highlighted the challenge to mental health posed by isolation and loss of routine during the coronavirus pandemic as he made it plain that football was no longer uppermost in his thoughts .
The England manager ought to have been gearing up for Wembley friendlies against Italy and Denmark and counting down to Euro 2020 but the former have been cancelled and the latter postponed until next summer .
Southgate has written an open letter to England fans in which he urged everyone to follow the government guidelines and said that the heroes of the coming months would not be footballers , rather the doctors and nurses who risk their lives caring for others .
In a typically well - judged piece , he talked about both the “ physical and emotional ” impact of the crisis .
“ For everyone in our country , the primary focus of the present – and the coming months – is undoubtedly to look after our families , support our communities and work together to come through what is clearly the most extreme test that we ’ve faced collectively in decades , ” Southgate said .
“ In the way you ’ve all come together to support our team , we must now work together to combat a virus that is causing physical and emotional issues to so many .
So , please continue to follow the guidelines for hygiene and also the sensible precautions put in place to control the spread of the virus in order to protect those most vulnerable to its impact .
That responsibility lies with us all .
“ We are also conscious of the economic uncertainty affecting so many businesses and , consequently , virtually every family .
Coupled with the unique challenges of self - isolation , the loss of routine to normal working and social life , we face real challenges to our mental wellbeing .
Our children may feel anxious with uncertainty .
It ’s not normal for any of us and it ’s going to challenge us all .
“ We were due to play next week and to represent you all this summer but now is clearly not the moment for us to take centre stage .
The heroes will be the men and women who continue working tirelessly in our hospitals and medical centres to look after our friends and families .
They wo n’t receive the individual acclaim but we all know their importance is beyond anything we do on the pitch . ”
The Euros have been moved from 12 June-12 July of this year to 11 June-11 July of next , with the intention being to stage the tournament as planned across 12 cities , including London , Glasgow and Dublin .
“ When we play again as an England team , it will be at a time when not only our country but the rest of the world as well is on the road to recovery , ” Southgate said .
“ Hopefully we will be closer to each other than ever and ready for the beautiful distraction that football can bring .
“ To play in a European Championship next summer will still be possible for all of our squad
and so we should n’t spend another moment thinking about the postponement of the competition .
I feel sure that , when that moment comes , I will never have been prouder to be the leader . ”

US coronavirus live: Pelosi urges Trump to 'immediately' speed up medical supplies production .
2020-03-19 13:22:42 +00:00 .
9.21am EDT 09:21 US jobless claims jump amid coronavirus crisis
The number of US jobless claims jumped by 70,000 last week , the first signal of how coronavirus is financially impacting American families .
In the week ending March 14 , 281,000 Americans applied for unemployment benefits , up from 211,000 the week before .
The figure was signficicantly higher than the 220,000 forecasted by economists , and it will likely only rise in the weeks to come , as more businesses are forced to lay off workers .
For more updates and analysis on the jobless numbers , follow the Guardian ’s business live blog : 9.13am EDT 09:13 Mnuchin says first direct cash payments expected in three weeks Treasury secretary Steven Mnuchin told Fox Business that the administration hopes the first cash payments to American families can be sent in three weeks , assuming congressional approval .
Mnuchin said adults can expect to receive $ 1,000 , while children would receive $ 500 , so a family of four would get $ 3,000 in total .
The secretary said a second round of payments would go out in six weeks if an emergency declaration is still in place .
Mnuchin also noted he is in regular contact with Democratic leaders Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer , as the White House and Congress works to reach an agreement on a massive stimulus package .
8.52am EDT 08:52
Pelosi calls on Trump to ' immediately ' use powers of Defense Production Act House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is now calling on Trump to “ immediately ” use the powers of the Defense Production Act to speed up production of medical supplies .
“ Right now , shortages of critical medical and personal protective equipment are harming our ability to fight the coronavirus epidemic , endangering frontline workers and making it harder to care for those who fall ill , ” Pelosi said in a statement .
“ The President must immediately use the powers of the Defense Production Act to mass produce and coordinate distribution of these critical supplies , before the need worsens and the shortages become even more dire .
There is not a day to lose . ”
Trump said yesterday he was invoking the Defense Production Act to potentially use at a later date in a worst - case scenario , but Pelosi clearly believes the powers of the law are already necessary and need to be deployed .
8.48am EDT 08:48
Several House members self - quartine after two test positive Good morning , live blog readers !
Two House members
, congressmen Mario Díaz - Balart and Ben McAdams , announced yesterday they had tested positive for coronavirus .
After their diagnoses were announced , several of their coworkers , including House minority whip Steve Scalise , announced they would self - quaratine out of an abundance of caution .
This new reality comes as Congress is trying to craft a massive stimulus package to buoy the economy amid the coronavirus crisis .
Now that the virus has directly affected members of Congress , it could make it more difficult for the House to come back as scheduled to pass that crucial legislation .

Tokyo Olympics could be delayed, admits Sebastian Coe .
2020-03-19 13:15:56 +00:00 .
Sebastian Coe has admitted that “ nobody is saying we will be going to the Games come what may ” as the debate over whether the Tokyo Olympics should be staged this summer continues to intensify .
A growing number of athletes and athlete representatives , including Britain ’s world heptathlon champion , Katarina Johnson - Thompson , and the Olympic pole vault gold medallist , Katerina Stefanidi of Greece , have expressed their concerns about being able to prepare for the Games with much of Europe in lockdown .
The president of World Athletics has now accepted that nothing is off the table in terms of future planning – including moving the Games to September or October – because of the coronavirus pandemic .
“ That is possible , anything is possible at the moment , ” said Lord Coe , who was also in charge of the London 2012 Olympics .
“ I think the position that sport has taken , and it was certainly the temperature of the room in the conversation I had the other day with the IOC and our other federations , is that nobody is saying we will be going to the Games come what may . ”
Nevertheless , Coe does not believe a decision has to be taken yet .
“ It may be that over the course of changing events , and they ’re changing by the hour , that that is something we have to confront , ” he said .
“ But it is n’t a decision that has to be made at this moment . ”
Asked if the Olympics could be delayed until 2021 , Coe added : “ That seems on the surface of it an easy proposition , but member federations actually avoid Olympic years often to have their world championships .
Athletics has its world championships at exactly those dates that you ’re talking about in 2021 in the United States [ 6 - 15 August ]
so it ’s not quite as easy as just saying we ’ll move one down .
“ The European football championships have moved to next year , that too would clash .
The sporting calendar is a very complicated matrix , it ’s not that simple to just simply say we ’ll ease one event from one year to the next .
We have done that with our own world indoor championships but that does n’t clash with anything else at the same time . ”
As for the prospect of combining the Olympics and the world championships next year , Coe told Radio 4 ’s Today programme : “ It would be ridiculous of me to say anything is ruled out at the moment .
We are living in an environment where everything is changing very quickly , the whole world wants clarity , that ’s just simply not possible at the moment and we ’re no different from any other sector . ”
Meanwhile the four - times Olympic champion Sir Matthew Pinsent has increased his criticism of the IOC , saying it would be “ folly ” to allow the Olympics to go ahead .
“ I think it ’s the IOC saying we must try and get through if we can , which I have a degree of sympathy with , it just runs counter to what every health authority and government is saying around the world , ” Pinsent told the Today programme .
“ On a global front we have other priorities and I think the Olympics should at the very least be saying we should postpone or indeed just cancel at this stage and we ’ll talk about postponement later on .
I just do n’t think there ’s much of a choice at this stage .
For much of the European countries as well as Asian countries , organised sport in any meaningful way has ceased and that ’s from government advice .
I do n’t see there ’s any way forward for an Olympic athlete to train effectively even as an individual but particularly in a team environment . ”

'Not ready to go': tributes paid to UK's first named victims of coronavirus .
2020-03-18 18:27:49 +00:00 .
Of the more than 2,600 people to have contracted coronavirus in the UK by Wednesday , 104 have died .
That figure has more than doubled since Sunday .
Most have not been named , and the majority are older people who had underlying health conditions – though in some cases family members and medical professionals have been keen to emphasise that they were expected to live with their conditions for many years .
The youngest person confirmed dead so far was 45 - year - old Craig Ruston .
Another unnamed victim was 93 .
Ninety nine of the deaths have been in England , two in Wales , and three in Scotland , with none in Northern Ireland .
Of the deaths so far , details have emerged in at least five cases : Rushton , a rugby fan and father of two from Kettering , Northamptonshire , had been a footwear designer , including at Dr Martens , before being diagnosed with motor neurone disease .
He had been writing about his struggle with the condition before he tested positive with Covid-19 .
But his posts became less frequent as he began losing strength in his upper body .
In one of his last he wrote about a dream he had of standing beside his wife and daughters at his own funeral .
He wrote : “ I do n’t fear death , but I can tear myself to pieces if I dwell too long on what happens when I ’m gone . ”
His family said he was “ not ready to go ” .
He died on 16 March .
Described by his family as a “ typical jolly Irishman ” , Gibson died on St Patrick ’s Day , 17 March .
He was born in County Tyrone and had 12 siblings .
After moving to South Yorkshire at the age of 26 , he worked at the coking plant at Orgreave .
In retirement he enjoyed gardening but problems with his lungs forced him to move into a sheltered housing flat in Oughtibridge , near Sheffield .
He died in Sheffield Northern general hospital after being diagnosed with Covid-19 .
His daughters , Lisa , an NHS worker , and Michelle , a teaching assistant , were not allowed to visit him in hospital .
Lisa said : “ It is sad that we were n’t able to be with Daddy , but the nurses were there for us . ”
Described as a “ true legend ” of the Avon and Somerset police , Matthews retired as a police officer in 2010 after a heart attack .
Nick and his wife , Mary , from Nailsea in Somerset , had a week ’s holiday on the Canary island of Fuerteventura , at the end of February .
Matthews , who was disabled and had underlying health conditions , was taken to Bristol Royal Infirmary after complaining of breathing difficulties on 12 March .
He died on 14 March after testing positive for Covid-19 .
Blakeley was a churchgoer from Middleton , in Rochdale and sang in the choir .
He had a “ beautiful voice ” , according to a spokeswoman for the town ’s St Michael ’s church .
He was also regarded as a “ gracious gentleman ” , she said .
He had underlying health conditions and fell ill after coming into contact with someone who had travelled to Italy .
Blakeley was admitted to North Manchester general hospital on 3 March suffering from sepsis .
He tested positive for Covid-19 on 10 March and died three days later .
Finalyson was the first British victim of coronavirus to be named after she died on holiday on the island of Bali in Indonesia on 11 March .
She was the founder of a dental communication business based in Shenley , Hertfordshire , one of the counties worst hit at the start of the outbreak in the UK .
She had four children .
Her colleagues paid tribute to her “ passion , creativity and determination ” .
Finlayson suffered from lung disease and diabetes before she was diagnosed with Covid-19 .

BMW and Toyota suspend European operations .
2020-03-18 11:45:31 +00:00 .
BMW and Toyota have joined a rapidly lengthening list of carmakers shutting down European operations , affecting UK plants in Oxfordshire and Derbyshire , as the coronavirus brings the automotive industry grinding to a virtual halt .
More than 10,000 car workers have been laid off across the industry as Nissan , the Mercedes - Benz parent , Daimler , Volkswagen , Ford , Fiat and Peugeot have already announced suspensions of their European output .
Jaguar Land Rover kept its UK sites operating but has frozen output at its Slovak factory .
Germany ’s BMW and the Japanese auto giant Toyota followed suit on Wednesday , extending the roster of factories that would normally make millions of cars every year but are on pause for the time being .
“ From today , we will shut down our European car factories and the Rosslyn factory in South Africa , ” BMW ’s chief executive , Oliver Zipse , said , adding that the interruption is expected for now to last until 19 April .
BMW , which makes Minis at its Cowley plant near Oxford , said its profits this year would be significantly lower , given that it is shutting factories that accounted for half of the 2.6 m cars it built in 2019 .
Toyota said it had stopped output at more of its plants in Europe and Asia as the spread of the coronavirus prompts countries to instruct non - essential businesses to suspend operations .
The pause includes its Burnaston , Derbyshire plant in Britain , while factories in Poland , the Czech Republic and Turkey will also be affected .
Jaguar Land Rover , which has plants at Castle Bromwich , Solihull and Halewood , said it was following government advice , including staggered shift patterns and working from home where possible but had not yet decided to stop work at UK factories .
“ All of our UK plants remain open and we plan to keep building cars until at least the end of the week subject to the ongoing supply of parts , the company said .
“ We will continue to closely monitor and review the situation as it evolves . ”
However , it will suspend work at Nitra , Slovakia , although some staff will remain to support the launch of the Land Rover Defender .
Fresh suspensions at BMW and Toyota come a day after Nissan closed its Sunderland factory , Britain ’s biggest car plant , joining a number of automotive firms and the aerospace giant Airbus in ceasing production .
The Japanese carmaker , its US rival Ford and Germany ’s Volkswagen cited global economic turmoil that has choked off demand , as well as concerns about workers ’ safety .
Nissan ’s decision means work will stop at its Sunderland factory , which employs 6,000 staff and produces about 440,000 vehicles a year .
Automotive firms with operations in the UK have been examining ways they can assist with a drive to manufacture 20,000 ventilators to help treat coronavirus patients .
Vauxhall , owned by PSA Group , has said it can 3D - print parts for the medical devices and even assemble them at its Ellesmere Port plant , making use of excess capacity created by a freeze in production there .

Glastonbury festival postponed due to coronavirus .
2020-03-18 11:01:51 +00:00 .
Glastonbury festival , which was due to celebrate its 50th anniversary year in 2020 with headliners including Taylor Swift , Paul McCartney and Kendrick Lamar , has been postponed as a result of the coronavirus pandemic .
The festival confirmed via Twitter on Wednesday that the event , which was set to take place from 24 - 28 June at its usual home of Worthy Farm in Somerset , had been rescheduled to take place in 2021 .
The festival had taken a business - as - usual approach until only a few days ago , announcing its third and final headliner – LA rapper Kendrick Lamar was unveiled as the Friday night bill topper – last week .
On Thursday 12 March the festival announced an additional 90 acts – including Pet Shop Boys , Dua Lipa and Noel Gallagher – that would fill its schedules , but less than a week later the impact of the Covid-19 virus was deemed so severe that the festival was no longer tenable .
The cancellation will be a huge blow to the festival with some estimating losses could be as high as £ 100 m , and will ruin its 50th anniversary year .
When announcing the lineup additions last week , Emily Eavis said that they came “ after much consideration given the current circumstances , and with the best of intentions ” , but that they did n’t have a crystal ball and at that point were “ working hard ” to deliver the event while “ closely monitoring developments ” .
The announcements came shortly after the government ’s chief scientific adviser Sir Patrick Vallance said that late June is likely to be just after the peak of the outbreak .
The festival has become one of the most celebrated cultural events in Europe since its humble beginnings as a gathering of 1,500 people in September 1970 .
It has grown into an event with more than 200,000 attendees , and its 50th anniversary year was set to be a vintage edition .
As well as Pyramid Stage headliners Lamar , McCartney and Swift other acts included Pet Shop Boys , Dua Lipa and Fatboy Slim , while Diana Ross was set to play the Sunday teatime “ legend ” slot , and Lana Del Rey , who would have played just before Lamar on the Pyramid stage .
Glastonbury is the latest high - profile cultural event or institution to be affected by the outbreak .
On Monday evening all major British theatres announced they were closing , while on Tuesday most big museums and galleries , including the Natural History Museum and the Tate facilities , revealed they would no longer be open to the public .

Profit warnings from firms across Europe mount as Covid-19 bites .
2020-03-18 09:49:18 +00:00 .
A string of retailers , pub and restaurant groups in the UK and across the rest of Europe have issued profit warnings as the coronavirus pandemic takes a mounting corporate toll .
Inditex , the Spanish retail giant that owns chains including Zara , has taken a € 287 m provision in relation to the virus .
The company , which is the world ’s largest fashion retailer , with brands including Bershka and Massimo Dutti , said sales in its stores and online plunged 24 % between 1 March and 16 March .
The company has suspended its dividend to shareholders and will divert the cash to strengthen its balance sheet .
As the world goes into lockdown , the group has closed 3,785 stores in 39 markets .
In total , it has 7,469 stores in 96 markets .
Sodexo , one of the world ’s largest catering groups , warned that the virus could cost € 2bn in lost sales .
The French company , which has clients including Ascot Racecourse and the US Marine Corps , suspended its annual forecast .
European stock markets dropped in early trading , with the FTSE 100 index of blue - chip shares losing 190 points , or 3.5 % , at 5,104 points .
The jet engine manufacturer Rolls - Royce was the top faller in London , down 18 % at 312p , after JP Morgan cut its target price on the stock from 350p to 250p .
Supermarkets rallied , though , with J Sainsbury up 8.5 % .
A string of UK pub and bar chains joined the chorus of warnings on Wednesday , with the government ’s call for the public to stay at home effectively shutting down social life in Britain .
Restaurant Group , the owner of Wagamama , said that sales are “ getting worse by the day ” and forecast revenues down a quarter this year .
The pubs group Marston ’s , known for its Hobgoblin and Lancaster Bomber beers , said it expects a significant fall in sales in the coming weeks .
Mitchells & Butlers , which owns the All Bar One , Browns and Harvester chains , said recent trading has been “ severely impacted ” by the spread of the virus and that it would no longer provide guidance on financial performance for the year .
Revolution Bars Group warned of a “ material deterioration ” in trading this year .
It is taking measures , including a “ reduction in payroll costs ” , and is cutting entertainment and door staff .
The beleaguered retailer Superdry warned investors that it will not meet its guidance of £ 5 m to £ 6 m in sales per week it forecast in January .
The company said that 78 stores across Europe are shut .
Stores remain largely open in the UK , which accounts for 50 % of sales , but US customer traffic is falling on average by 25 % week on week as the virus spreads .
On Monday , Debenhams asked landlords for a five - month rent holiday .
The owner of the fashion chain Primark , Associated British Foods , said the outbreak would hit sales across Europe .
It said 72 stores accounting for 20 % of selling space were now closed in Italy , France , Spain and Austria .

Coronavirus collabs: the social media games entertaining the masses – and bringing us together .
2020-03-18 03:21:12 +00:00 .
What ’s quarantine without a fun way to pass the time ?
As pandemic - induced social distancing pushes more and more people to the solitude of the home , self - isolators have started coming up with ways to entertain themselves , their neighbours and strangers around the world through social media .
For cinemagoers who miss the collective experience of the silver screen – the phones bleeping in quiet scenes , that guy behind you munching popcorn in your ear and , perhaps more particularly , the delight of dissecting the film with friends afterwards – the UK actor Brett Goldstein has started up a film club on Twitter .
Under the hashtag # IsolationFilmClub , a movie is selected every day by a nominated user , “ anyone who wants to watch it can , and then talk about it using the hashtag ” , Goldstein said .
For those who want something a bit more active , there ’s Big Kitchen Disco : a collaborative playlist coupled with a simultaneously solo household kitchen boogie , which kicked off with – naturally – Dancing On My Own by Robyn .
Or you could dance along to one of the many quarantine playlists being created .
The actor Rita Wilson – who was diagnosed with coronavirus along with her husband Tom Hanks on Australia ’s Gold Coast last week – collaborated with the public to produce Quarantunes , a 47 - song set on Spotify including such classics as Locked Up by Akon , U Ca n’t Touch This by MC Hammer and I Will Survive by Gloria Gaynor .
And since you ’re dancing , why not couple it with a light show ?
After Sydney , Australia announced it was cancelling its annual aural and visual festival Vivid – known not just for the colourful light - art displays over landmarks throughout the CBD , but its live concert series – a DIY version has sprung up on Facebook .
“ Get your own festive lights out on your balcony , switch over your lounge room bulbs to COLOUR .
Get your self isolation pad LIT for our own makeshift DIY Vivid Australia , ” the event page says .
Meanwhile over on Instagram , Australian musicians who are part of youth broadcaster Triple J ’s emerging music program , Unearthed , have been covering each other ’s songs .
Hauskey , the musician who started it , said he started doing it to stave off the feeling of being “ useless ” while stuck at home .
With so many musicians having had gigs cancelled for the foreseeable future , “ exposing my small audience to someone else ’s music is one tiny way I can help out ” , he said .
Hauskey covered Eluera ; Eluera covered Shannen James .
And the game goes on .
For those whose cathartic impulses tend towards the introspective , the Oregon illustrator Carson Ellis has started a Quarantine Art Club on Instagram , posting regular art prompts , challenges and tips in an attempt to help others entertain themselves or the other people in their household – particularly the youngsters .
“ I ’m thinking of ways that we can stay connected here through art , ” she wrote in a post on Monday .
“ We ’re all going to be more isolated than usual .
Many of us just became unwitting homeschool teachers to our kids .
Many of us will be home all alone for a while .
Let ’s keep busy .
I ’ll try to post assignments every day this week that you can do on your own or with your family .
Let me know if you have drawing exercises you love and I ’ll share them . ”
More than 700 people responded to the first challenge : a self - portrait .
Ellis ’s Quarantine Art Club is a more organised , visual art - focused version of the creative projects happening around the world under the hashtag # IsolationCreation , in which art - makers of all kinds are using the enforced downtime to make , bake , carve , collage and concoct their way through the crisis .

Kevin Durant among four Brooklyn Nets players to test positive for Covid-19 .
2020-03-17 22:27:16 +00:00 .
NBA superstar Kevin Durant said he is among the four Brooklyn Nets players to have tested positive for coronavirus , according to a report .
The Nets confirmed Tuesday that four players had returned positive tests for Covid-19 , less than a week after the global outbreak prompted the suspension of the NBA season .
Later Tuesday , Durant confirmed to NBA reporter Shams Charania that he was one of them , adding : “ Everyone be careful , take care of yourself and quarantine .
We ’re going to get through this . ”
Three of the players were asymptomatic while one was showing symptoms of the rapidly - spreading virus , days after the Utah Jazz reported that two of their players had also tested positive .
The Nets said in a written statement that all four players were isolated and under the care of team physicians , but individuals remained unnamed until Durant came forward later in the afternoon .
“ The organization is currently notifying anyone who has had known contact with the players , including recent opponents , and is working closely with state and local health authorities on reporting , ” the team said .
“ All players and members of the Nets travel party are being asked to remain isolated , closely monitor their health and maintain constant communication with team medical staff . ”
The team last played against the Lakers in Los Angeles on 10 March .
A day later , the league suspended its season until further notice , as the coronavirus pandemic upended major sporting events across the globe .
The Lakers will administer coronavirus testing on their players on Wednesday before going into a 14 - day self - quarantine , according to a Los Angeles Times report .

European markets suffer further losses as early rally fizzles .
2020-03-17 13:31:54 +00:00 .
European stock markets have suffered fresh losses after an early rally fizzled amid a mounting corporate and economic toll from the coronavirus pandemic .
Hopes for the UK chancellor ’s business support package had driven the FTSE 100 index in London 2 % higher in early trading , before renewed fears about the rapid spread of the virus pushed it more than 100 points lower to 5,043.98 , a fall of just over 2 % .
Among the biggest losers on the blue chip index were the catering company Compass , which issued a profit warning after being forced to close nearly half its business , holiday firm Tui and the cruise firm Carnival .
As EU leaders discussed how to combat the crisis in a day - long conference call , Germany ’s Dax lost 1.9 % , France ’s CAC fell 1.4 % , Italy ’s FTSE MiB dropped 0.2 % , while Spain ’s Ibex hung on to gains of 1.3 % .
In Asia , stock markets had bounced back overnight , with Japan ’s Nikkei closing up 5.8 % and Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng 0.87 % higher .
Investors rushed to buy the dollar , considered a safe - haven investment , and sterling fell by 1.5 % against the US currency at one stage , to $ 1.2085 .
As the virus swept through Europe , Italy was the first country to go into national lockdown last week , and has now been followed by France , Spain , Austria and Germany .
In the UK , the prime minister Boris Johnson has urged the public to work from home and to stay away from pubs , clubs and restaurants .
At 4 pm GMT on Tuesday , the UK chancellor , Rishi Sunak , along with the prime minister , is expected to unveil a rescue package for businesses threatened with collapse .
Most companies in Britain do not have insurance cover for closures caused by infectious diseases , according to the industry body , the Association of British Insurers .
The rout on stock markets has prompted authorities in France , Italy , Spain and Belgium to ban short - selling on a number of stocks to shield some of Europe ’s biggest companies from the sell - off .
Short - selling means traders borrow company stock with a view to selling it and buying it back later at a lower price , and then pocket the difference .
The practice tends to exacerbate panic selling .
The European Union ’s market watchdog is stepping up surveillance of hedge funds and other short - sellers that may be taking advantage of the heavy selling in recent days .
The European Securities and Markets Authorities has announced temporary measures that will force investors to hand over more information about their short - selling positions by cutting the threshold for disclosure in half .

Josh Frydenberg to learn if he's ineligible to sit in the Australian parliament .
2020-03-16 21:34:37 +00:00 .
The federal treasurer , Josh Frydenberg , will learn on Tuesday if he is ineligible to sit in the Australian parliament , just days before he is expected to unveil the second round of stimulus to combat the economic effects of Covid-19 .
Frydenberg ’s eligibility has been challenged in the federal court by a Kooyong constituent , Michael Staindl , who alleges he is disqualified by section 44(1 ) of the constitution because he is a citizen of Hungary , which Frydenberg denies .
The federal court heard the challenge in February .
Chief justice James Allsop , justices Susan Kenny and Alan Robertson are listed to give judgment on Tuesday at 2:15pm in Melbourne .
While a favourable ruling for Frydenberg would lift a constitutional cloud hanging over the deputy Liberal leader , the judgment also has the potential to eject the federal treasurer from parliament as he puts together Australia ’s economic response to the coronavirus and to re - enliven questions about the validity of ministerial decisions made by ineligible MPs .
On Thursday the federal government unveiled a $ 17.6bn package to boost the Australian economy and has already signalled a second round of stimulus is coming for sectors including airlines , tourism , events , sport and the arts .
On Monday Frydenberg met Scott Morrison , finance minister Mathias Cormann and cabinet colleagues with portfolios on the frontline of the unfolding economic shock , before a cabinet meeting on Tuesday , with a package to follow as early as Thursday .
Events are moving so rapidly the government is telegraphing round two even though it is yet to legislate its first tranche of stimulus measures .
Legislating round one will happen next week , with parliament expected to gather for a short session with the building in a partial lockdown .
The federal court case against Frydenberg is the first eligibility challenge of the 46th parliament , after the 45th parliament was rocked by 14 MPs or senators resigning or being ruled ineligible due to dual citizenship .
In October 2017 the high court adopted a strict interpretation of the bar on foreign citizens , disqualifying then deputy prime minister Barnaby Joyce and four senators because they had failed to renounce dual citizenships before nominating for parliament .
If Frydenberg were disqualified , on one reading of the constitution , he could continue as treasurer from outside the parliament for a period of three months .
Frydenberg could renounce Hungarian citizenship and seek re - election at a byelection , following Joyce and every other MP who lost their lower house seat in the 45th parliament only to return with a fresh mandate .
According to his eligibility declaration , Frydenberg ’s maternal grandparents were born in Hungary , giving birth to his mother there in 1943 .
Nevertheless , Frydenberg declared he had never been the subject or citizen of any country other than Australia .
Frydenberg ’s lawyers told the court in February the challenge should be thrown out because the MP ’s mother , Erica Strauss , was rendered stateless after fleeing Hungary with her family in 1949 .
“ A precondition to renounce [ citizenship ] is establishing to the satisfaction of the government that you are a citizen and in this case the Hungarian government does not recognise the respondent as a citizen , ” John Sheahan QC said .
He added there was a letter from the Hungarian prime minister ’s office on 19 November confirming Frydenberg ’s Hungarian citizenship had not been established .

Arsenal's head of medical rejects Liverpool offer to stay at Emirates .
2020-03-16 17:04:27 +00:00 .
Arsenal have been boosted by the decision of their long - serving head of medical services , Gary O’Driscoll , to reject a move to Liverpool and remain in north London .
O’Driscoll originally decided to join Liverpool , who made him their top target to replace the Fifa - bound Andrew Massey , in January but has changed his mind and will continue in his current role at Arsenal .
Both personal and professional reasons are believed to be behind his change of heart , with the improved environment under Mikel Arteta a significant factor .
The 49 - year - old ’s family were keen to remain in London while O’Driscoll , although flattered by Liverpool ’s interest , feels convinced and excited by the direction in which Arteta wants to take Arsenal .
The highly - rated O’Driscoll joined Arsenal in 2009 , originally from a rugby background in which he was the lead doctor on two British and Irish Lions tours .
There was an acknowledgement , at the time when his departure looked certain , that he would be very difficult to replace and the club had already issued an advertisement online .
O’Driscoll is a highly popular character behind the scenes and his u - turn will be received well among players and backroom staff .
Speaking to the Guardian for an interview conducted when it seemed he was set to leave , the club ’s former head physiotherapist Colin Lewin spoke in glowing terms about his ex - colleague .
Lewin was part of the interview panel , along with the club ’s then - doctor Ian Beasley and former CEO Ivan Gazidis , that appointed O’Driscoll 11 years ago .
“ He came in and was clearly very good at what he did ; his trauma management was unbelievable having worked in rugby and on Lions tours , ” he said .
“ His first three months , when we got to the Champions League semi - final , were an unbelievable baptism of fire .
We had a great relationship and it ’ll be a loss for them .
We [ the panel ] made the right decision ; we went through an awful lot together and we got on really well . ”
Arsenal ’s players and staff are currently self - isolating until 24 March after Arteta was diagnosed with coronavirus and O’Driscoll is expected to be an important figure in the club ’s management of such a rapidly evolving situation .

Coronavirus: UK theatres announce cancellations .
2020-03-16 08:10:20 +00:00 .
The Old Vic and a number of other theatres in London have suspended productions due to coronavirus .
Endgame , the Old Vic ’s major Beckett revival starring Daniel Radcliffe and Alan Cumming , has closed two weeks early .
On Sunday night , the theatre announced it had “ no reason to disagree with current scientific and government advice on coping with coronavirus ” but explained that “ it is becoming increasingly impractical to sustain business as usual ” .
All other upcoming Old Vic productions , including 4000 Miles starring Timothée Chalamet , remain scheduled to go ahead .
Unlike other European capitals such as Paris and Berlin , where major theatres closed last week due to government orders , the vast majority of the UK ’s theatres are still welcoming visitors .
However , on Sunday night , several other venues joined the Old Vic in announcing cancellations .
The Arcola in east London is suspending all public performances until further notice and said the impact of Covid-19 is a critical threat “ to the livelihoods of all those who work in the arts ” .
The theatre announced that “ we do not believe that it is practical or responsible for us to stage shows while people ’s lives are at risk ” .
The Arcola added that the majority of its income comes from theatregoers and called for donations to ensure it “ stays thriving , long after this crisis is past ” .
The Turbine theatre , which opened at Battersea Power Station last summer , has cancelled all performances until 18 April .
It had been scheduled to present # HonestAmy , Amy Booth - Steel ’s solo performance directed by Kathy Burke .
Burke said they are “ hoping to relaunch [ the show ] later in the year ” .
The Bunker , which is housed in a former underground car park in London Bridge , has cancelled a week of performances that featured almost 100 artists and was due to start on Monday .
“ This is not a decision taken lightly , ” it said .
“ We have spent months organising this week ; at the last count we had 94 people involved in our week and to have to cancel the day before we begin is soul - destroying .
But we have to put our artists ’ safety first . ”
The Finborough theatre in Earl ’s Court , south - west London , has postponed two forthcoming productions .
Hockey Mom , Hockey Dad , originally scheduled to open on 31 March , will now begin performances on 2 February 2021 .
Women Without Men , which had been set to open on 28 April , will be delayed until 11 August .
Its current production , Not Quite Jerusalem , will continue its planned run this month .
In Scotland , St Andrews ’ Byre theatre , which has two stages , cancelled all performances and public events until the end of May. On Saturday , the Young Vic in London cancelled two performances of Nora : A Doll ’s House due to a member of the company self - isolating as a precaution .
The Young Vic said it would make a further announcement about the show on Monday morning .

Chinese executive who called Xi a 'clown' over coronavirus response 'is missing' .
2020-03-15 06:29:20 +00:00 .
An influential former Chinese property executive who called president Xi Jinping a “ clown ” over a speech he made last month about the government ’s efforts to battle the coronavirus has gone missing , according to his friends .
Ren Zhiqiang , a member of China ’s ruling Communist party and a former top executive of state - controlled property developer Huayuan Real Estate Group , has not been contactable since 12 March , three of his friends told Reuters .
“ Many of our friends are looking for him , ” his close friend and businesswoman Wang Ying said in a statement to Reuters , describing them as being “ extremely anxious ” .
“ Ren Zhiqiang is a public figure and his disappearance is widely known .
The institutions responsible for this need to give a reasonable and legal explanation for this as soon as possible , ” she said .
Calls made by Reuters to Ren ’s mobile phone went unanswered .
The Beijing police did not immediately respond to requests by phone and fax for comment on Sunday .
China ’s state council information office did not immediately respond to a faxed request for comment .
An essay Ren shared with people he knew in recent weeks took aim at a speech Xi made on 23 February , which state media reported was teleconferenced to 170,000 party officials nationwide .
Copies of his essay were later posted online by others .
In the essay , which does not mention Xi by name , Ren said after studying the speech he “ saw not an emperor standing there exhibiting his ‘ new clothes ’ , but a clown stripped naked who insisted on continuing being emperor , ” according to a version posted by China Digital Times , a US - based website .
He also said it revealed a “ crisis of governance ” within the party , and that a lack of free press and speech had prevented the outbreak from being tackled sooner , causing the situation to worsen .
Ren ’s disappearance comes as censorship over how local media and online users discuss the epidemic has tightened in recent weeks .
The coronavirus , which emerged in China late last year , has infected more than 80,000 people in the country , killing 3,199 .
Ren , who gained the nickname “ Cannon Ren ” for previous critiques posted on social media , was put on probation from the party for a year in 2016 as part of a punishment for publicly criticising government policy .
That year , the government ordered platforms such as the Twitter - like Weibo to shut down Ren ’s social media accounts , which at the time had more than 30 million online followers , saying he had been “ spreading illegal information ” .
Beijing has framed the battle against coronavirus as a “ People ’s War ” led by Xi .
While the draconian measures to fight the virus , including the lockdown of the city of Wuhan , have proven effective at containing it even as the disease spreads rapidly in other countries , China has faced criticism for suppressing information in the outbreak ’s early days .

Max Schachmann triumphs at Paris-Nice as Nairo Quintana takes final stage .
2020-03-14 17:32:29 +00:00 .
German cyclist Max Schachmann , of BORA - hansgrohe , sealed overall victory in Paris - Nice on Saturday as Colombian Nairo Quintana won the seventh and final stage in Valdeblore - La Colmiane .
Schachmann held a 36 - second lead going into what became the final day , after the coronavirus outbreak led to the cancellation of Sunday ’s scheduled eighth stage , and he was pushed to the limit in pursuit of the title .
Tiesj Benoot ’s dramatic late attack for Team Sunweb inside the last kilometre of the punishing 16 km final ascent forced his GC rival Schachmann to respond from a chasing group also featuring Thibaut Pinot ( Groupama - FDJ ) and Vincenzo Nibali
( Trek - Segafredo ) .
But the Belgian Benoot ended second both on the stage and in the overall race , eventually reducing his arrears in the general classification to 18 seconds .
Schachmann , who collapsed in exhaustion after the finish line , had led the week - long race from start to finish after securing an impressive victory on the first stage in Plaisir .
Thomas de Gendt ( Lotto Soudal ) had earlier launched a trademark solo bid for final - stage glory after a breakaway group that featured some big hitters such as Romain Bardet ( AG2R - La Mondiale ) , Alberto Bettiol ( EF Pro Cycling ) and Quintana ( Arkea Samsic ) was whittled down to just two :
De Gendt and Julian Alaphilippe ( Deceuninck - Quick - Step ) .
De Gendt dropped his French rival inside the final 15 km as he went for broke , but was then reeled in by Quintana ’s powerful attack which came less than five kilometres from the finish on the long final climb .
Quintana passed the breakaway specialist De Gendt and won the stage by 47 seconds with Pinot coming home third , 56 seconds back .
Schachmann said : “ It was very , very hard .
The last three kilometers were a walk through hell , through pain .
Now it ’s like being in heaven and it erases all the pain in my legs .
“ It ’s not my first success , but the biggest so far , and the most important because a whole lot of people doubted that I could be a GC rider , ” Schachmann said .
“ Now I won the most prestigious one - week race . ”
Quintana , who has been in eye - catching recent form
having already recorded victories at the Tour de la Provence and Tour des Alpes , said : “ I always try to win stages with some elegance .
I wanted to win [ a stage ] to bring a little joy to this team , and this is a gift for the whole team for the job done .
Now I ’m going to go back to Colombia to stay with my family . ”
As top - level sports were postponed across the globe on Friday , race organisers had announced their decision to scrap the final stage but conclude the race with no fans permitted at the start and finish areas .
That decision followed the French government ’s move to ban gatherings of more than 100 people in response to the coronavirus pandemic .
Several high - profile teams such as Team Ineos , Mitchelton - SCOTT and Astana Pro Team had withdrawn before the race began .
Along with every other sport , the future of the professional cycling season is clouded in uncertainty .
The Giro d’Italia has already been postponed , along with a number of the Spring classics including E3 Harelbeke and Gent - Wevelgem .
The Tour of Flanders , one of the biggest one - day races on the calendar , is scheduled for 5 April and as things stand could in theory go ahead , with all professional sport in Belgium called off until 31 March .

The Covid-19 puzzles that scientists are still trying to answer .
2020-03-14 14:38:08 +00:00 .
Early on Saturday morning the news broke that a newborn baby had tested positive for coronavirus in a London hospital .
The child is thought to be the youngest affected by the disease in the UK .
The child ’s mother had been admitted to hospital days before the birth with suspected pneumonia .
Tests – at North Middlesex hospital , in Edmonton – revealed she had the coronavirus .
Then , minutes after she gave birth , her baby was given a test which was also positive for Covid-19 .
It is not known whether the child contracted the disease in the womb or was infected during birth .
The case is striking because generally Covid-19 has had very little impact on children or young adults .
The Chinese Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said its analysis , released on 11 February , of just under 45,000 cases revealed that less than 1 % were under nine years old , while those aged between 10 and 19 accounted for just over 1 % .
By contrast , those aged between 50 and 59 made up almost 25 % of the cases while those between 60 and 69 made up 19 % .
“ The information suggests that children are less likely to be infected than adults and that is a bit of a puzzle , ” says Professor Jimmy Whitworth , of the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine .
One suggestion put forward by researchers is that children have upper - respiratory tract illnesses most of the time .
“ It may be that they are simply not reporting themselves as feeling ill , ” adds Whitworth .
“ So they are not getting tested .
It could be just a sampling issue . ”
Alternatively , it is possible that other human coronaviruses – which are known to cause minor colds – may be circulating in schools and playgrounds and these could providing a degree of cross protection against Covid-19 .
“ Or it could be something to do with social mixing , ” says Whitworth .
“ We know children interact mostly with other children and adults mostly interact with adults .
It is not as though the whole of society mixes randomly .
So those differential mixing patterns might explain part of it . ”
The low numbers of Covid-19 infections among children is not the only mystery .
It has been known to science for only a few months and many of its features continue to puzzle experts .
One of these concerns hypertension – high blood pressure .
Studies of Chinese cases suggest that adults with high blood pressure are more at risk of dying from coronavirus than others .
Again scientists find it difficult to find simple explanations .
“ It may be such individuals have other conditions that have not been recognised , ” says Tom Wingfield , a clinician at Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine .
“ We know that people with hypertension are more likely to be diabetic and have impaired kidneys , for example .
That could be a factor but the honest answer is that we just do not know at present . ”
Other puzzles about the impact of Covid-19 have simpler explanations , however .
For example , there is its tendency to kill men more often than women .
The infection is fatal for 4.7 % of men , but just 2.8 % of women , even though the gender balance for those testing positive is roughly 50:50 .
Most experts say this is explained by the fact that in China smoking is primarily a male prerogative and this has weakened men ’s respiratory systems and made them more vulnerable to Covid-19 .

'They would have been slaughtered': Coronavirus crisis causes capital freeze for Australian business .
2020-03-14 00:27:09 +00:00 .
The devastation wrought on the Australian stockmarket by the coronavirus pandemic has made it impossible for companies to raise fresh money , with two bank funding injections totalling at least $ 2.5bn called off .
Billions of dollars in other attempts to raise money have also been cancelled as investors close their wallets after two wild weeks of trading erased more than a year ’s worth of gains .
“ Effectively , the window to raise capital is closed , ” said fund manager Geoff Wilson of Wilson Asset Management , who himself this week canned a plan for one of his funds to buy between $ 10 m and $ 20 m worth of shares back from investors .
Asked if he thought it would open again any time soon , he said : “ No .
“ It would only be the desperate who would be raising [ money ] at the moment , ” another market observer said .
On Thursday evening , after the biggest one - day fall on the Australian market since 1987 , NAB abandoned plans to raise about $ 2bn by selling investors notes – financial instruments that pay a steady flow of coupons .
It ’s believed the decision was taken following what sources said were “ robust ” discussions by the NAB board .
Smaller rival Macquarie followed suit on Friday morning , as the market was again plunging , yanking a $ 500 m note issue of its own .
The notes , known as hybrids because they have some of the characteristics of shares and some of the characteristics of debt , carry greater risk than either because they are the first to take losses when things go wrong .
But they are extremely popular with Australian mum - and - dad investors who have confidence in the strength of the country ’s banking sector because they provide relatively high returns .
The prices of both were set last month , before the virus smashed the market .
But after the falls in the share prices of the banks – on Friday night , NAB ’s share price was down by a third since 20 February and Macquarie ’s down almost a quarter over the same period – those prices became wildly unrealistic .
Sources said that if the NAB and Macquarie notes had been issued at pre - crash values then their prices would have immediately crashed once they began to trade , making investors angry and leaving the banks looking like they were under financial pressure .
“ If they ’d proceeded with it they would have been slaughtered when they came on , ” one market source said of the NAB notes .
“ Obviously it ’s bad for the investors but it ’s also really bad for NAB .
“ Which bank wants to issue capital at a massive discount ? ”
Sources say figuring out new prices for the notes was too hard because the markets were too volatile – a point proven on Friday when , after dropping 8 % in early trade , the benchmark ASX 200 rallied to finish the day up more than 4 % .
Also on Friday , Pengana Private Equity Fund abandoned a $ 470 m capital raising , telling the market that “ current market volatility makes it impossible to conduct an orderly process ” .
The previous day , corporate lender Metrics Credit Partners handed more than $ 340 m back to investors after falling well short on its hopes to raise up to $ 640 m and list a fund on the ASX .
Wilson said the market as a whole was in a “ fear phase ” .
“ This is the steepest fall we ’ve ever seen in the market , ” he said .
He said it combined the speed of the falls experienced in the crash of 1987 with the relentlessness of the 2008 - 09 global financial crisis , when markets around the world fell day after day after day .
“ This is the steepest fall we ’ve ever seen in the market , ” he said .
“ From the start of the bear market [ in 1987 ] to the bottom , that was about 50 % and it took seven weeks .
“ We ’re a month in
and we ’re down something like 30 % . ”

As coronavirus crisis intensifies, travel companies allow holidaymakers to postpone trips free of charge .
2020-03-13 13:50:56 +00:00 .
Travel companies are relaxing their booking policies in a bid to encourage people to keep booking holidays during the coronavirus crisis .
Tour operators including Kuoni , Hayes & Jarvis , Prestige , G Adventures , i - escape , On Foot Holidays and Camino Ways are among those waiving fees if clients want to change the destination or date of their trip .
Most of the policies apply to bookings made between now and the end of March , and allow clients to postpone their trip to later this year or , in some cases , into 2021 .
But the time frame for switching varies between operators .
The majority require changes to be made up to 30 days before departure but some , including Kuoni and Hayes & Jarvis , are allowing clients to switch holidays up to seven days before departure , while luxury operators Cox & Kings and Abercrombie & Kent say clients must rebook up to 60 days before .
On Foot Holidays , whose main destinations are Italy , France and Spain , has gone further and is advising customers not to consider travelling at all before June .
The virus presents the tourism industry with an unprecedented challenge .
Noel Josephides , founder of Greece specialist Sunvil , said : “ This is our 50th year , and for us the only thing that compares to it is the 1974 Turkish invasion of Cyprus , when we specialised in Cyprus holidays .
This is far worse because it ’s very uncertain .
The way the government is playing it – trying to flatten out the peak – means it will continue through to June .
But if it goes beyond that the whole summer will be wiped out . ”
While bookings to Europe have slowed to a trickle , long - haul tour operators say there is still demand for holidays in 2021 .
Sam Clark of Asia specialist Experience Travel Group said : “ The majority of our clients would travel at the moment but they ca n’t because they ca n’t get a visa , ” referring to restrictions put in place by India and Vietnam .
India has suspended all tourist visas , effective from 13 March until 15 April , while Vietnam said UK passport holders will be unable to apply for a tourist visa for Vietnam until further notice .
Clark added : “ People seem very relaxed about travelling , but later in the year and beyond .
A lot of people are looking for deals in late 2020 . ”
He called on airlines to change their policies .
A growing number of airlines , including Etihad , Virgin and Qatar , are allowing travellers to cancel free of charge but not all .
“ Some airlines are being very unhelpful , ” he said .
Discover the World , a specialist in Nordic countries , has seen a spike in bookings for 2021 .
“ On our Nordic destinations we ’re up 66 % overall , ” said marketing director Georgina Hancock .
“ Which breaks down to Iceland up 23 % , Sweden up 48 % , Finland up 107 % , Norway up 150 % , and Arctic voyages up a whopping 220 % . ”
Travelsupermarket is reporting a spike in online searches for destinations with no cases of coronavirus , including the Greek island of Santorini , which is up 165 % from last week ;
Barbados , up by 88 % ; the Maldives , by 70 % ; and even Tenerife , which was down by 75 % earlier in the month but saw searches rise by 68 % .
By contrast , searches to destinations in Spain and Italy are down by 80 % .
UK tourist boards are also encouraging hotels to be flexible about booking policies .
Deirdre Wells , chief executive of Visit Kent and Visit Hertfordshire , said : “ We are encouraging them [ hotels ] around cancellation policies .
If people are looking at May half - term for example – they are more likely to book if they know that they could postpone if necessary . ”

England cricket tour of Sri Lanka called off due to coronavirus .
2020-03-13 10:34:57 +00:00 .
England ’s tour of Sri Lanka has been officially called off due to the global spread of the coronavirus .
The decision was announced by the England and Wales Cricket Board and their Sri Lankan counterparts on Friday morning while Joe Root ’s players were out in the middle playing the second day of their final warm - up fixture in Colombo .
The two - match series , part of the World Test Championship , was due to start in Galle next Thursday .
But with England supporters due to begin travelling out to the island in the coming days , and apparent unease among the squad about the situation , a postponement became inevitable .
An ECB spokesperson said : “ Due to the Covid-19 pandemic worsening globally , and after discussions with Sri Lanka Cricket , we have today made the decision to return our players to the UK and postpone the forthcoming Test series between Sri Lanka and England .
“ At this time , the physical and mental wellbeing of our players and support teams is paramount .
We will now look to bring them home to their families as soon as possible .
These are completely unprecedented times , and decisions like this go beyond cricket .
“ We would like to thank our colleagues at Sri Lanka Cricket for their outstanding support and assistance throughout this situation .
We look forward to returning to Sri Lanka in the very near future to fulfil this important Test series ’’
Elsewhere the IPL announced it has suspended the start of the competition until at least 15 April .
The Pakistan Super League meanwhile announced on Thursday , that its upcoming fixtures in Karachi will be played in front of an empty stadium , a measure also in place for India ’s two remaining ODIs against South Africa on Sunday and Wednesday .
Australia ’s T20 World Cup - winning women have seen a tour to South Africa that was due to begin on 22 March cancelled , while The Road Safety World Series – a seniors event in India that features Sachin Tendulkar – has been paused indefinitely after just four of its scheduled 11 fixtures .

First Covid-19 case happened in November, China government records show - report .
2020-03-13 06:45:27 +00:00 .
The first case of someone suffering from Covid-19 can be traced back to 17 November , according to media reports on unpublished Chinese government data .
The report , in the South China Morning Post , said Chinese authorities had identified at least 266 people who contracted the virus last year and who came under medical surveillance , and the earliest case was 17 November – weeks before authorities announced the emergence of the new virus .
The Chinese government was widely criticised over attempts to cover up the outbreak in the early weeks , including crackdowns on doctors who tried to warn colleagues about a new Sars - like virus which was emerging in the city of Wuhan in Hubei province .
The data obtained by the Post , which the Guardian has not been able to verify , said a 55 - year - old from Hubei province could have been the first person to contract Covid-19 .
For about one month after that date there were one to five new cases reported each day , the report said , and by 20 December there were 60 confirmed cases .
The virus , which is now a pandemic , has infected at least 128,343 people across the world and killed 4,702 .
Of those who have contracted the virus since it began , 68,324 people have recovered .
Almost 81,000 of the cases occurred in China , mostly in the province of Hubei .
Official statements by the Chinese government to the World Health Organisation reported that the first confirmed case had been diagnosed on 8 December .
Doctors who tried to raise the alarm with colleagues about a new disease in late December were reprimanded .
Authorities did not publicly concede there was human - to - human transmission until 21 January .
Jonathan Mayer , professor emeritus at the University of Washington ’s department of epidemiology , said it was “ entirely conceivable ” there were cases as early as mid - November .
He said there were three possibilities : that cases were n’t detected at the time , that they were detected but not recognised as a new disease , or they were detected and recognised but reporting was suppressed .
“ I have no way of knowing which of these possibilities in fact happened , ” Mayer told the Guardian .
“ We know that there are reports of early suppression of reports of cases , and the ‘ whistleblowers ’ dealt with rather severely .
But in fairness , the signs and symptoms of C​ovid-19 are non - specific and even now , without confirmatory testing , it is easy to mistake this for another disease . ”
Mayer said it was highly improbably that patient zero would ever be identified .
The origins of the virus have become part of US - China diplomatic conflict , fuelled by US officials calling the disease “ Chinese coronavirus ” or “ Wuhan virus ” .
It ’s widely accepted , including by the head of China ’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention that the virus originated in Hubei .
However in recent ​weeks Chinese officials have started suggesting or outright claiming that the virus ​did not ​originate​ in China , but perhaps in the US​ , a conspiracy theory that is gaining traction​. On Thursday , Zhao Lijian , a foreign ministry spokesman , suggested without evidence that the US army may have brought it into China .
“ Epidemics always have become political , ” said Mayer .
“ Governments seem opposed to admitting that things were handled imperfectly , yet it is only by identifying the imperfections and shortcomings that things can be addressed to do a better job next time .
With emerging infections , there will always be a next time . ”

Broadway shuts down due to coronavirus pandemic .
2020-03-12 18:32:05 +00:00 .
New York ’s Broadway theatres have become the latest mass entertainment venues to temporarily shut down for coronavirus .
State governor Andrew Cuomo unveiled a plan to suspend shows as part of new regulations to prevent public gatherings over 500 people .
Carnegie Hall , one of New York ’s premier concert venues , will also suspend performances through 31 March , and the Metropolitan Museum of New York will close indefinitely from 13 March .
The decision is a reversal of sorts for Broadway , which seemed to anticipate a financial hit from the virus but have kept tickets on sale .
Trade group The Broadway League , who held an emergency closed - door meeting today , previously reassured customers in a statement that “ We have significantly increased the frequency of cleaning and disinfecting in all public and backstage areas beyond the standard daily schedule , and we have added alcohol - based sanitizer dispensers for public use in the lobby of every theatre .
The League also discouraged anyone experiencing cold or flu symptoms from attending performances .
Just two days ago , New York City mayor Bill de Blasio said he hoped to keep Broadway ’s lights on : “ I do n’t want to see Broadway go dark if we can avoid it .
I want to see if we can strike some kind of balance , ” he told CNN .
And earlier this week , Scott Rudin , the prolific producer currently backing a record - breaking revival of West Side Story , slashed ticket prices for five shows to $ 50 ( Broadway tickets usually sell for around $ 200 ) .
“ These are shows that are playing to fantastically healthy business , ” Rudin told The Hollywood Reporter of his decision .
“ My partners and I want the buildings full – even , and especially , during this crisis – and this is the way to ensure it … I want no deadwood in these buildings – and my colleagues and I want to give people the chance to see these shows when they otherwise might not be able to afford tickets or to even get tickets . ”
Given the rash of cancellations in recent days and warnings from public health officials to avoid crowded areas to minimize the spread of coronavirus , also known as Covid-19 , the suspension seemed only a matter of time as coronavirus cases in the US passed 1,200 people , including a part - time usher for two high - profile Broadway productions .
On Wednesday , Governor Jay Inslee of Washington , the site of the worst outbreak , banned gatherings of over 250 people in three counties , including Seattle , and the NCAA announced its March Madness college basketball tournament would play without fans .
The NBA abruptly suspended its season Wednesday night after Utah Jazz player Rudy Gobert tested positive for the virus .
Coronavirus has now disrupted a booming box office season for Broadway , as Aaron Sorkin ’s To Kill A Mockingbird adaptation starring Ed Harris and Ivo Van Hove ’s modernized West Side Story have broken records .
It ’s estimated that the shutdown will cost more than $ 100 m in ticket sales .
It also throws askew plans for upcoming premieres of Tony - aiming shows , such as Conor McPherson ’s Bob Dylan musical Girl from the North Country , Martin McDonagh ’s Hangmen and a musical based on the life and death of Diana , Princess of Wales .
Broadway also joins Hollywood in reckoning with the threat of coronavirus .
The latest updates in two storied franchises – James Bond in No Time to Die and the Fast and the Furious F9 – have pushed back their premieres to the fall or later .
Late - night programs from Stephen Colbert ’s Late Show in New York to Jimmy Kimmel Live !
In Los Angeles have cancelled live audiences for the foreseeable future .

Ireland school closures reveal stark contrast to UK Covid-19 response .
2020-03-12 15:18:55 +00:00 .
Ireland is shutting schools , colleges and childcare facilities to delay the spread of coronavirus in contrast to the UK which is keeping education institutions open , exposing a stark divergence in response to the crisis .
Irish authorities said the shutdown would begin at 6 pm on Thursday and last at least until 29 March as part of a series of restrictions , including a ban on mass gatherings , that will be kept under review .
The unprecedented closures put pressure on Boris Johnson to follow suit – or to explain the decision to keep schools open .
The British prime minister was due to give a press conference later on Thursday after a meeting of Cobra , the government ’s emergency committee .
Asked earlier about Dublin ’s announcement , the prime minister ’s official spokesman said : “ We follow our own advice , they will do the same . ”
The prospect of diverging responses caused consternation on both sides of the Irish border and prompted calls for a joint strategy on the island of Ireland .
Daniel Baker , the lord mayor of Belfast city council , said it will seek guidance from the Northern Ireland Executive and Public Health Agency .
Unionists , who usually prefer to follow London than Dublin , disagreed over whether the threat of coronavirus justified an all - Ireland approach .
The taoiseach , Leo Varadkar , announced the partial lockdown at a hastily arranged press conference in Washington DC before meeting Donald Trump for a traditional eve of St Patrick ’s day meeting .
“ I know that some of this is coming as a real shock , ” he said .
“ And it ’s going to involve big changes in the way we live our lives .
And I know that I ’m asking people to make enormous sacrifices .
But we ’re doing it for each other . ”
All indoor gatherings of 100 people or more and outdoor gatherings of 500 or more should be cancelled , Varadkar said .
State - run cultural institutions will close but public transport will still run .
The lockdown is not as drastic as Italy ’s .
Shops , cafes and restaurants will remain open , as will airports and ports .
Travellers with Covid-19 symptoms are being asked to self - isolate .
The taoiseach said he was acting on the latest medical advice .
“ The virus is all over the world , it will continue to spread but it can be slowed .
Acting together as one nation we can save many lives .
Our economy will suffer but in time it will bounce back . ”
Ireland recorded nine new infections on Wednesday , raising its number of cases to 43 .
It also reported the first death , an elderly woman with an underlying medical condition .
Northern Ireland on Thursday recorded two new cases , bringing its total to 20 .
The prospect of diverging strategies on school closures prompted criticism that authorities were acting as if coronavirus would respect the 310 - mile border between the north and south of Ireland .
Northern Ireland ’s health minister , Robin Swann , told Stormont ’s health committee that deaths should also be expected in Northern Ireland but that so far it was not “ in the same place ” as the republic of Ireland .
“ Our approach is different as there are no signs of community transfer . ”
Other unionists disagreed .
“ Since coronavirus does n’t give a damn about borders or identities it makes sense for NI to follow immediately , ” tweeted Alex Kane , a unionist commentator .
Jamie Bryson , a loyalist blogger , said Northern Ireland had to recognise it shared an open land border with Ireland .
“ Regardless of the rights or wrongs of that open border , it is a reality .
We face a health crisis that could result in deaths of many people .
It is sensible to coordinate the approach between both jurisdictions . ”

Princess Cruises owner suspends all trips for two months .
2020-03-12 15:01:56 +00:00 .
Cruise operator Carnival is halting the journeys of all ships in its Princess Cruises line for two months , due to the global spread of coronavirus .
Carnival , the world ’s largest cruise company , says it will voluntarily pause all 18 vessels which sail under the Princess Cruises brand , affecting all voyages departing between 12 March and 10 May. Shares in the company plummeted by 17 % on the London stock exchange , to £ 18 , while its US shares were halted in pre - market trading .
In January , the shares were changing hands at nearly £ 52 .
The president of Princess Cruises , Jan Swartz , said the company had taken the decision in order to reassure their passengers , employees and investors .
Passengers currently on one of Princess Cruises ’ vessels will complete their journeys as expected , if the cruise is due to end in the next five days .
Those on longer voyages will disembark early at alternative locations .
Princess Cruises , which has more than 50,000 passengers from 70 countries onboard its ships each day , has been especially hard hit by the spread of Covid-19 .
One vessel , the Diamond Princess , was quarantined for two weeks off the coast of Japan , with 3,000 passengers and crew onboard , as it became a floating breeding ground for the virus , resulting in at least seven deaths .
Shortly afterwards , the Grand Princess ship was held off California after it was linked to the death of an American man who had previously travelled onboard .
A Florida couple who were on the cruise liner have filed a $ 1 m lawsuit against Princess Cruises , accusing it of failing to protect passengers from the coronavirus outbreak .
Carnival ’s decision to suspend operations follows river and ocean cruise operator Viking Cruises .
The Switzerland - based firm announced on Wednesday it would temporarily stop all departures between 12 March and 30 April .

Three more travel insurers withdraw cover for coronavirus .
2020-03-12 14:51:44 +00:00 .
The travel insurers Aviva , InsureandGo and the Post Office have followed LV= and withdrawn cover for future coronavirus claims .
LV= shocked the travel industry on Wednesday night when it announced that it would stop selling all travel insurance policies with immediate effect due to the coronavirus outbreak .
The insurance giant Aviva said on Thursday that it had halted all single - trip direct travel insurance for new customers travelling to Italy “ to reflect the current risks posed by coronavirus ” .
Customers buying cover for trips to other destinations will no longer be able to select its “ travel disruption ” or “ airspace closure ” add - ons , Aviva said .
The move has been prompted by the World Health Organization declaration of a pandemic , and is likely to be followed by other insurers .
It means that anyone who has not already bought cover for future holidays will be unlikely to be able to get coronavirus cover .
The Post Office said it would continue to sell travel insurance policies but there is no longer cover provided for any claims related to Covid-19 for policies purchased after 11 March 2020 – the date of the WHO ’s a pandemic announcement .
InsureandGo , owned by Mapfre , said on Thursday morning that customers who bought a policy after 11.59pm on 11 March will not be able to make any claim relating to the virus .
Travellers who bought policies from all the firms prior to 11 March will be able to bring claims as before , the Association of British Insurers ( ABI ) said .
The Post Office said it was monitoring the situation very closely and would update its travel alerts webpage with the latest information for policy holders .
“ Insurance is designed to provide cover for unforeseen and unexpected events and is priced on this basis .
The outbreak of the Coronavirus means there is an increased likelihood of disruption to people ’s travel plans .
We envisage that these decisions , affecting only Aviva ’s travel insurance new business , will be temporary actions , ” said an Aviva spokeswoman .
As the coronavirus outbreak has spiralled out of control travellers and insurers have watched on with increasing horror .
Travel insurance cancellation typically only kicks in when the Foreign Office advises against all but essential travel to a country .
Travel disruption cover will sometimes step in , but it is limited and often absent from the cheaper policies .
Travellers faced with flight cancellations , lockdowns , and a growing list of countries refusing entry to tourists have found to their cost that they are not covered .
If the UK government advised against all but essential travel to , say , Spain the cost of claims would likely send some insurers to the brink .
Despite this , the number of people buying travel insurance rose sharply last month .
An ABI spokesperson said : “ Existing policies remain unaffected .
Travel insurance for new customers remains widely available , so people should shop around for the cover that best meets their needs .
In a competitive insurance market , insurers will be monitoring carefully the fast - moving developments in the coronavirus outbreak , and will keep their position under constant review as the situation develops .

Japan must prepare for possibility of Olympics being cancelled, says senior MP .
2020-03-12 06:46:42 +00:00 .
A senior member of Japan ’s governing party has said Tokyo 2020 Olympics organisers must plan for the possibility that this summer ’s Games will be postponed or cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic , as the city ’s governor insisted they would go ahead as scheduled .
Shigeru Ishiba , a former defence minister who has been tipped as the country ’s next leader , said any decision on the Games ’ fate should be left to the International Olympic Committee [ IOC ] , a day after an organising committee official suggested the Olympics could be postponed .
While he said cancellation was still “ unlikely , ” Ishiba called on Japan ’s government to prepare for every possibility .
“ Not thinking about worst - case scenarios wo n’t eliminate the risk of them materialising , ” Ishiba told Reuters .
“ The government must start thinking now about what to do ” in case the Games are postponed or cancelled , he added .
His warning came as a rift appeared to be opening up among Olympic officials and senior politicians in Japan , where 620 cases of Covid-19 have been recorded , along with 12 deaths , according to the health ministry .
Those figures exclude nearly 700 infections and seven deaths connected to the Diamond Princess cruise liner , which was quarantined at the Japanese port of Yokohama last month .
Tokyo ’s governor , Yuriko Koike , said on Thursday that cancelling the Games , due to open on 24 July , would be “ unthinkable , ” but added that the World Health Organization ’s decision to declare the outbreak a pandemic would have some impact on the event .
“ It ca n’t be said that the announcement of a pandemic would have no impact ...
but I think cancellation is unthinkable , ” Koike told reporters , without explaining how the pandemic classification might affect the Games .
On Wednesday , Haruyuki Takahashi , a member of the Olympic organising committee ’s executive board , angered colleagues when he suggested in a newspaper interview that postponing the Games by a year or two might be the “ most feasible ” option if the virus made it impossible to hold them this summer .
The organising committee ’s chief , Yoshiro Mori , quickly dismissed Takahashi ’s remarks as “ outrageous ” , adding that the Games would go ahead as scheduled .
Takahashi reportedly apologised for the comments , but again raised the prospect of major disruption to the Games when he said any decision on their future would have to be made before May – a timeline previously dismissed by Tokyo 2020 organisers .
Speaking to the TBS network after Mori had publicly rebuked him , Takahashi said : “ If you think about the athletes , May would seem too late ( to make a decision on any delay ) .
We need to think about taking the first step , before the IOC . ”
Takahashi said that the organising committee would probably discuss postponement at its next meeting later this month , TBS reported .
The coronavirus outbreak has already disrupted preparations .
The the traditional flame - lighting ceremony in Olympia , Greece , is expected to be held without spectators , and an event to mark the torch ’s arrival in Japan on 20 March will be scaled down .
Olympic qualifying tournaments in several different sports have also been cancelled , postponed or moved to different countries due to the outbreak .

Joe Marler could be cited for grabbing Alun Wyn Jones by the genitals .
2020-03-08 13:41:11 +00:00 .
Joe Marler could be cited and potentially face a ban after the England prop was caught on camera grabbing the genitals of Alun Wyn Jones during England ’s Six Nations win over Wales .
Marler appeared to pinch and twist Jones ’s penis in an off - the - ball incident just before half time in an apparent attempt to goad the Wales captain into reacting .
The England forward could be cited and banned for between 12 weeks and four years for the act .
“ Yeah .
It ’s interesting .
What would you do ? ”
Jones said after the match .
“ I ’ve got 138 Tests for my country .
If I react , I get a red card .
It ’s tough , is n’t it ?
Hopefully World Rugby have a look at it .
Joe ’s a good bloke , lots of things happen on a rugby field .
It ’s difficult as a captain these days because you ca n’t speak to a ref about anything , it feels .
“ I look at the touch judge , obviously he did n’t see what happened and that ’s fine .
There ’s a lot of footage that has been shown , it seems like a lot of supporters saw what happened .
It ’s very frustrating that we talk a lot about TMOs and footage reviews , yet there does n’t seem to be a lot of it happening . ”
Gareth Thomas , the former Wales international turned TV pundit who came out in 2009 , joked at half - time that “ It would never have happened in my day and I ’m really upset about that – because if it had I would have never retired ! ”
Thomas later apologised for the remark , tweeting : “ To the very small minority of people who were offended by my comment yesterday I apologise .
I tried to find humour in a situation - that does n’t mean I condone it , it means I wanted it to not be an issue .
So do n’t change the narrative to justify how you feel .
Be kind . ”
Andy Goode , the former Leicester and England fly - half , was critical of Thomas .
“ Imagine if someone touched another man or woman up in the workplace and then someone joked about it on TV , ” Goode tweeted .
“ People have admiration for Gareth Thomas with what he ’s been through and opened up about but I wonder if something similar was done in a homophobic way he ’d joke about it ? ”
Examples of similar cases are rare , but in 2016 London Irish lock George Robson received a six - week suspension for the same offence .
Six Nations organisers have until 48 hours after Saturday ’s match ended to issue any citings .
With England ’s final match against Italy being postponed due to coronavirus , any bans will impact on the players ’ clubs .
Marler is not the only England player to come out of the 33 - 30 victory in trouble , with Manu Tuilagi also potentially facing a ban for a dangerous tackle on George North which resulted in the centre being shown a red card .
Tuilagi must appear before a disciplinary hearing - most likely on Tuesday .

China activist who called Xi clueless on coronavirus faces years in jail for 'subversion' .
2020-03-08 04:41:06 +00:00 .
A prominent Chinese activist detained for criticising President Xi Jinping ’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak is being held on a state security charge that carry a maximum sentence of 15 years in jail , his friends said on Sunday .
Xu Zhiyong , a former law lecturer and founder of the social campaign New Citizens Movement , was taken away by police on 15 February during a fresh crackdown on freedom of speech precipitated by the coronavirus crisis .
Xu ’s family found out from Beijing police on Saturday that he has been held in secret detention on the charge of “ inciting subversion of state power ” and has been denied access to a lawyer , according to friends Teng Biao , a legal academic , and fellow activist Hua Ze .
They said Xu had been placed in “ residential surveillance at a designated location ” – a form of solitary detention that can last up to six months in an unknown location without lawyer or family access .
Many human rights lawyers who have been held in this form of secret detention were tortured for months before being formally charged and jailed on state security crimes .
Xu published an essay last month , which called on Xi to resign for what he saw as his lack of ability to govern China , citing the coronavirus crisis and the mishandling of the Hong Kong pro - democracy protests .
“ You did n’t authorise the truth to be released , and the outbreak turned into a national disaster , ” Xu wrote .
“ Whenever you face looming crisis , you ’re clueless … Mr Xi Jinping , please step down . ”
Teng , now based in the US , fears that Xu ’s detention will end in a lengthy jail term , because he has previously been jailed and the authorities tend to punish repeated offenders harshly .
Xu , who started activism in 2003 with Teng as PhD graduates , was jailed in January 2014 for four years on the charge of “ assembling a crowd to disrupt order in a public place ” after writing an open letter critical of Xi and for staging protests for equal rights for migrant children and official transparency over private assets .
“ Judging from previous cases , authorities tend to hand down much heavier sentences for people jailed before .
And his charge this time is a much more serious than before , we worry he will be heavily sentenced , ” Teng said .
A staff member at the Dongxiaokou police station in Beijing , which is responsible for Xu ’s case , refused to answer questions by phone on Sunday .

Saudi Arabia detains three royal family members in latest crackdown .
2020-03-07 04:04:59 +00:00 .
Saudi authorities have detained three royal family members including two senior princes , according to US media reports , signalling the crown prince is further tightening his grip on power .
Prince Ahmed bin Abdulaziz al - Saud , a brother of King Salman , and the monarch ’s nephew Prince Mohammed bin Nayef were taken from their homes early on Friday by royal guards after being accused of treason , the Wall Street Journal reported citing unnamed sources .
The pair were allegedly plotting to oust King Salman and the son he has designated to succeed him , Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman , it reported .
The New York Times also reported the detentions , adding that Prince Nayef ’s younger brother Prince Nawaf bin Nayef had also been detained .
Saudi authorities did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
The detentions mark the latest crackdown by the de facto ruler crown prince Mohammed bin Salman , who has consolidated his reign with the imprisonment of prominent clerics and activists as well as princes and business elites .
The crown prince , the king ’s son , has also faced a torrent of international condemnation over the murder of critic Jamal Khashoggi inside the kingdom ’s Istanbul consulate in October 2018 .
Prince Ahmed , said to be in his 70s , had returned to the kingdom from his base in London in the aftermath of the Khashoggi scandal , in what some saw as an effort to shore up support for the monarchy .
In June 2017 , the crown prince had edged out Prince Nayef , the former crown prince and interior minister , to become heir to the Arab world ’s most powerful throne .
At the time , Saudi television channels showed the crown prince kissing the hand of the older prince and kneeling before him in a show of reverence .
Western media reports later said that the deposed prince had been placed under house arrest , a claim strongly denied by Saudi authorities .
“ Prince Mohammed is emboldened – he has already ousted any threats to his rise and jailed or murdered critics of his regime without any repercussion , ” Becca Wasser , a policy analyst at the US - based Rand Corporation , said of the latest crackdown .
“ This is a further step to shore up his power and a message to anyone – including royals – not to cross him . ”
The detentions come at a sensitive time as Saudi Arabia bars Muslim pilgrims from Islam ’s holiest sites to contain the coronavirus outbreak .
The kingdom has suspended the “ umrah ” year - round pilgrimage over fears of the disease spreading to Mecca and Medina , raising uncertainty over the upcoming hajj – a key pillar of Islam .
The oil - rich kingdom is also grappling with plunging price of crude , its major source of revenue .

London Marathon organisers fear 'unofficial' runs if race is cancelled .
2020-03-06 19:17:44 +00:00 .
Fears that runners would try to run the London Marathon even if the event were cancelled because of coronavirus have led organisers and other public bodies involved to conclude it should go ahead unless the crisis caused by the illness becomes acute .
The New York race was cancelled in 2012 in the aftermath of super storm Sandy , which had killed an estimated 40 people in the city , 48 hours before the race was due to start , but many runners had travelled over and decided to run it unofficially anyway , in a route around Central Park .
Concerns that there could be a repeat in London on 26 April are one of the factors that have tipped the balance towards trying to ensure it goes ahead .
“ There could be a whole lot of other problems if it does n’t take place , ” a London City Hall source said , pointing out there would probably be a lack of proper medical or other facilities if an unofficial run were to take place .
Other major spring marathons have been cancelled or postponed , however .
The Rome marathon in Italy , the European country worst hit by coronavirus , has been cancelled .
It had been due to take place on 29 March – all entries have now been moved to 2021 .
The Paris marathon has been shifted from 5 April to 18 October .
In a statement released this week , the London Marathon said it was monitoring coronavirus developments closely , but indicated it was intending to proceed .
“ The government ’s current advice is that all mass events should still go ahead .
“ There are many mass events scheduled in the UK before us and we are working closely with the DCMS [ the Department for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport ] and other mass event organisers to coordinate and agree appropriate advice to the public . ”
A source said a decision to cancel would be taken if there was clear advice from Public Health England to do so but ministers are eager that sporting events go ahead if possible to ensure that normal life does not appear under threat from the disease .
Around 40,000 people are due to run this year ’s London Marathon , the 40th since the event ’s inception .

Cycling and golf events cancelled as coronavirus continues to hit sport .
2020-03-06 13:28:46 +00:00 .
Cycling authorities have postponed this month ’s Tirreno - Adriatico and Milan - San Remo races because of the coronavirus outbreak .
The move , which will also see the Tour of Sicily at the start of April rescheduled , follows the Italian government ’s decision to suspend all sporting events that can not be held in a closed arena until 3 April .
The Tirreno - Adriatico had been due to start on 11 March , with Milan - San Remo slated for 21 March but organisers are looking for alternative dates later in the year .
Teams including CCC , Astana , Team Ineos and Mitchelton Scott had already withdrawn from a number of races .
In golf , next week ’s European Tour event in Nairobi and the Asian Tour ’s Royal ’s Cup 2020 in Thailand have been postponed indefinitely .
The event in Nairobi has been called off after the Kenyan government decided to postpone all international meetings and conferences in the country for at least a month .
The European Tour chief executive , Keith Pelley , said : “ We understand and totally respect the decision made by the government of Kenya in these difficult times .
We are looking into the possibility of rescheduling the tournament at some point later in the season , but that remains simply a possibility right now – we have no definitive plans at this stage . ”
The Rugby Football League , meanwhile , has advised clubs “ there is presently no rationale to close or cancel sporting events in this country – although clearly this may change as the situation evolves ” .
It is consulting with the broadcaster Sky about playing behind closed doors should the virus spread .
It has , however , recommended players are encouraged not to take part in handshakes , kiss or hug teammates , swapping in fist - bumps or waves .
Selfies are also to be encouraged with fans rather than taking items to sign .
However , Scotland ’s chief medical officer has insisted scientific evidence suggests mass gatherings , particularly those held outdoors , are unlikely to result in the virus being passed on .
Speaking at Murrayfield before Scotland ’s Six Nations match with France on Sunday , Dr Catherine Calderwood said : “ I ’ve looked at the scientific evidence very carefully , and what ’s emerging is there ’s actually very little impact on virus spread from mass gatherings , particularly if they are in the open air .
This is not a risk to the Scottish population in hosting this match . ”
Friday night ’s PRO14 fixture between Dragons and the Italian club Benetton will go ahead as planned after the Welsh club received public health assurances from league organisers .

Publishers report sales boom in novels about fictional epidemics .
2020-03-05 19:19:19 +00:00 .
“ What ’s true of all the evils in the world is true of plague as well .
It helps men to rise above themselves , ” wrote Albert Camus in La Peste ( The Plague ) , his 1947 novel about of how a deadly plague devastates a quarantined town .
More than 70 years later , the global threat of the coronavirus is sending today ’s readers towards novels about epidemics in droves .
Publishers around the world are reporting booming sales of books including La Peste , as well as Stephen King ’s The Stand and Dean Koontz ’s “ frighteningly relevant ” The Eyes of Darkness , which has become the subject of conspiracy theories online owing to its prescience .
The 1981 novel about a fictional virus called “ Wuhan-400 ” – “ China ’s most important and dangerous new biological weapon in a decade ” – leapt into third place in Amazon ’s charts this week after a description of the illness was widely shared online .
Ebook sales are up by an extraordinary 3,000 % in just three weeks , according to the publisher Headline , which credited Koontz ’s “ extraordinary imagination and masterful storytelling ” .
One online reviewer wrote : “ It coincides with events happening today to a spooky degree and made my blood turn to ice in my veins . ”
Another said : “ How could a writer possibly know about manmade viruses in 1981 that are now killing people in the same way that is described in this book ?
A great read but totally baffled . ”
Camus ’s The Plague follows the inhabitants of Oran , an Algerian town that is sealed off by quarantine as it is ravaged by bubonic plague .
Penguin is rushing through a reprint of its English translation to meet demand , but said on Thursday it had sold out of stock on Amazon .
The publisher added that sales in the last week of February were up by 150 % on the same period in 2019 .
Sales of the book have tripled in Italy , reported the literary magazine ActuaLitté , putting it in the country ’s top 10 bestsellers .
Sales of The Plague have also risen sharply in France , according to the French books statistics website Edistat , peaking at more than 1,600 copies sold in the last week of January – an increase of around 300 % on the previous year .
“ Although it ’s usually considered as an allegory for the French experience of Nazi occupation during the second world war , it could n’t be more relevant to the current moment , ” said Penguin classics ’ editorial director , Jess Harrison .
King ’s The Stand , which imagines a world decimated by a superflu known as “ Captain Trips ” , was also being snapped up by readers : the publisher Hodder said its online sales were up 163 % since Monday , with ebook sales up by 58 % .
The interest in fictionalised takes on epidemics has been mirrored in other forms of entertainment .
A 2012 strategy video game , Plague Inc , has reported a huge leap in players , and Warner Bros has reported that its 2011 film Contagion , a Steven Soderbergh movie about a pandemic , had risen from 270th in December 2019 to second on its most watched list .
The film is currently ranked at No 13 in the US and No 18 in the UK on Apple ’s rental charts .

Cruise ship linked to coronavirus death held off coast of San Francisco .
2020-03-05 04:01:18 +00:00 .
A cruise ship linked to the first death from coronavirus in California is being held off the coast of San Francisco , with 21 people on board reporting possible symptoms .
The 71 - year - old man who died on Wednesday was one of three individuals who tested positive for coronavirus after traveling on a roundtrip Grand Princess cruise from San Francisco to Mexico last month .
After the ship docked in San Francisco on 21 February , thousands more passengers boarded and thousands disembarked .
The vessel then began a roundtrip voyage to Hawaii .
On the return leg of the Hawaii trip , 11 passengers and 10 crew members reported flu - like symptoms , Gavin Newsom , California ’s governor , said in a news conference .
One additional crew member who had served on the Mexico trip was medically disembarked in Hawaii with flu - like symptoms and tested negative for coronavirus , according to San Francisco public health officials .
The ship was scheduled to arrive in San Francisco on Wednesday night , but officials requested that it delay its return while the US coast guard and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention coordinated testing .
The plan was for the ship to remain in international waters off the coast of California while a helicopter flew tests on board and then returned the samples to a laboratory for testing .
In addition to the 21 people reporting flu - like symptoms , officials planned to test the 62 passengers from the Mexico trip who remained on board for the Hawaii journey , as well as an unknown number of crew .
Those guests were instructed by the cruise line to stay in their staterooms until they were cleared by medical personnel .
By one estimate , more than 50 % of the passengers that disembarked from the cruise ship on 21 February were Californians , Newsom said , not including the crew .
In total the state and the CDC are working to track down about 2,500 people throughout the state who disembarked from the ship and could be at risk .
This was one of the factors that prompted Newsom to declare a state of emergency in California on Wednesday .
“ There ’s a number of people we ’re monitoring , ” he said .
“ We ’re going through that manifest and obviously the concern around people being on a tour that all travel together , not just on the ship , but were also transported together , highlights the need to focus with more acuity on those who may have been in closer contact with the individual who tragically passed away . ”
It is still unclear whether the passengers will be forced to remain on board like the passengers who were trapped on the coronavirus - infected cruise ship Diamond Princess for more than two weeks off the coast of Japan .

Bond movie No Time to Die pushed back to November .
2020-03-04 17:42:56 +00:00 .
The next James Bond film No Time to Die has been pushed back to November .
The 25th 007 outing , set to be Daniel Craig ’s last , was scheduled for a global release in April but just weeks away from release , MGM , Eon and Universal have decided for a seven - month delay .
In a statement , the three companies claim the decision was made “ after careful consideration and thorough evaluation of the global theatrical marketplace ” .
It will now be released in UK cinemas on 12 November and in the US on 25 November .
The date falls in line with the more recent 007 entries which have all bowed in November .
No Time to Die will now face competition from Disney animation Raya and the Last Dragon , Godzilla vs Kong and King Richard , a drama starring Will Smith as the father of Venus and Serena Williams .
The move comes after fears that the coronavirus could impact the global box office by as much as $ 5bn .
There have been cinema closures in Italy , South Korea , China , and Japan .
The Bond franchise is traditionally buoyed by international markets with the last four films all making over 70 % of their gross outside of the US .
No Time to Die cost a reported $ 200 m to make and has been beset with problems during production , including a late - in - the - day departure from original director Danny Boyle and a serious ankle injury for Craig .
It was originally set for a November 2019 release which was then moved to February before shifting to April .
This week saw a joint open letter from two major 007 fansites urging a release date change because of the coronavirus .
The founders of MI6 Confidential and The James Bond asked the companies behind the film to “ put public health above marketing release schedules ” .
Major releases such as The Invisible Man have been postponed in Italy to unknown dates .
Last weekend , the country saw a 75 % drop in box office from the equivalent weekend a year prior .

Coronavirus: UK fears of undetected cases grow as 12 more test positive .
2020-03-01 15:39:40 +00:00 .
A patient in Essex has become the second person in the UK to test positive for coronavirus without having recently travelled abroad , the Department of Health has said .
The case will fuel concerns that the virus is circulating undetected in parts of Britain , making it harder for authorities to contain the spread of the infection throughout the country .
The patient is among 12 new cases reported on Sunday by the chief medical officer for England , Prof Chris Whitty , bringing the total number of UK infections to 35 .
Two cases have previously been reported in Northern Ireland and Wales .
Three of the latest patients were in close contact with a known case and were identified through contact tracing .
Of the remaining eight cases , six had recently returned from Italy and two from Iran .
All of the patients , from London , West Yorkshire , Greater Manchester , Hertfordshire or Gloucestershire , are now being being investigated and their close contacts traced , Whitty said .
Peter Openshaw , professor of experimental medicine at Imperial College , London , said : “ It makes it particularly difficult to control any outbreak if there are people who do n’t know they ’re spreading it .
This really adds to the supposition many are now making that this one is going to be very hard to put back in the box .
“ The thing which I would urge every organisation and every business to do is to really start planning , as of now , for how people are going to manage to work remotely and cover each other ’s jobs in the event that people have to take time off from work .
It ’s planning for resilience in the eventuality that the spread is going to continue . ”
The new cases came as health authorities raced to track down people who had come into contact with a 35 - year man from Shenzhen who had been working in Bristol and tested positive for coronavirus after taking a Cathay Pacific flight from London Heathrow to Hong Kong on Thursday .
A statement from the Guangdong Health Commission late on Sunday said authorities in Shenzhen had declared an “ imported case ” of the coronavirus infection after the man tested positive .
According to the statement , the patient had travelled to Hong Kong from London on 27 February on flight CX250 on Cathay Pacific .
After landing in Hong Kong he took a ferry to Shekou port and entered mainland China .
While the man ’s temperature was normal at the time of his arrival , he developed a cough and fever on 29 February and was driven to hospital where he tested positive for the coronavirus .
He is now undergoing treatment in quarantine in a hospital in Shenzhen where his condition is described as “ stable ” .
The Chinese authorities said two of the man ’s colleagues in the UK had reported coughs and fever .
Chuang Shuk - kwan , director of the infectious disease division of the Centre for Health Protection , advised all passengers on Cathay Pacific flight CDX250 from Heathrow to Hong Kong on Thursday or ferry number 3A109 to call the centre ’s hotline and to be “ aware of the health situation , ” and seek medical help or quarantine if necessary .
Will Welfare , interim deputy director of health protection for Public Health England North West , said on Sunday that the agency was contacting people who had close contact with a resident from Bury , Greater Manchester , who became infected while in Italy .
“ Close contacts will be given health advice about symptoms and emergency contact details to use if they become unwell in the 14 days after contact with the confirmed case , ” he said .

Watford v Liverpool: Premier League – live! .
2020-02-29 16:47:41 +00:00 .
11.34am EST 11:34 Team news Watford ( 4 - 2 - 3 - 1 ) Foster ; Kiko Femenia , Kabasele , Cathcart , Masina ; Hughes , Capoue ; Sarr , Doucoure , Deulofeu ; Deeney .
Substitutes : Gomes , Dawson , Chalobah , Pussetto , Pereyra , Welbeck , Gray .
Liverpool ( 4 - 3 - 3 ) Alisson ; Alexander - Arnold , Lovren , van Dijk , Robertson ; Oxlade - Chamberlain , Fabinho , Wijnaldum ; Salah , Firmino , Mane .
Substitutes : Adrian , Matip , Hoever , Lallana , Jones , Minamino , Origi .
Referee Michael Oliver .
11.27am EST 11:27
Preamble
Hello and welcome to live coverage of Watford v Liverpool from Vicarage Road .
Even allowing for the received wisdom that football is a funny old game , it would be seriously bizarre if Liverpool were denied their first title for 30 years because of a pandemic .
If the coronavirus does not end the season early , Liverpool need 12 points from their last 11 games to clinch their first Premier League title .
They could still do it at Everton on 16 March , the third of those 11 games , should Manchester City drop points in the meantime .
For the time being , their focus is on beating Watford and extending their lead to 25 points .
Yawn , meh , 25 points .
Hang on , 25 points ? !
I ’m not sure Liverpool are getting enough credit .
You might not like them , you might think the Premier League is a bit naff , you might be sick of the sight of Jurgen Klopp ’s teeth , but come on : they ’ve won 35 of their last 36 league games FFS !
That has never happened before in Europe ’s biggest leagues .
In fact , their record this season - P27 W26 D1 L0 - belongs in Sunday League football .
There is one difference .
A team with 26 wins from 27 in Sunday League football would have a goal difference of around +200 .
Liverpool ’s is a mere +47 , and 13 of their 26 victories this season have been by a single goal – many of them requiring late winners .
That might be the reason for the slightly muted response to win after win after win ; it feels like Manchester City received more effusive praise two years ago when they regularly thumped teams by four or five .
I also think there ’s an element of everyone - even Liverpool fans - struggling to get their head around such unprecedented threepointery .
Or maybe the world is full of Expected Goals disciples .
Liverpool are second in the xG table , although an Expected Win tonight will move them within two Expected Points of Manchester City .
I ’d argue that Liverpool having to work so hard for many wius actually enhances rather than diminishes their achievement .
The soundbites may be cheesy but they ’re also true :
Liverpool are mentality monsters , the toughest in English football for a long while .
Watford played well in a 2 - 0 defeat at Anfield in December , so you never know what might happen tonight .
But 106 points from the last 108 available should give you a pretty good idea .
Kick off is at 5.30pm .
Updated at 11.37am EST

Norwich City v Leicester City: Premier League – live! .
2020-02-28 19:14:11 +00:00 .
2.12pm EST 14:12
Some early team news and it ’s a big shock with Jamie Vardy not in the Leicester squad due to a reported calf injury .
Kelechi Iheanacho comes in up top Leicester City ( @LCFC )
Leicester City 's starting XI for # NorLei , brought to you by @eToro 🦊 February 28 , 2020 1.27pm EST 13:27
Preamble Evening all .
Welcome to our coverage of tonight ’s Premier League game between Norwich and Leicester at Carrow Road .
It ’s almost do - or - die for the Canaries with games quickly running out to save themselves from the drop as they prepare to welcome the high - flying Foxes to East Anglia .
Seven points stand between Daniel Farke ’s side and safety going into this match but you can bet their supporters will be up for a bit of Friday football under the lights , even with Storm Jorge expected to wreak havoc in the UK this weekend .
Can Norwich end their five - match wait for a victory just when they need it most ?
Meanwhile , Leicester having been licking their wounds after the late defeat to Manchester City last week and will be keen to bounce back tonight with a victory .
They still have a six point lead over Manchester United in fifth but will know that this is a great opportunity to extend that before Ole Gunnar Solskjær ’s side face Everton on Sunday .
The last time Jamie Vardy scored in the Premier League against city on 21 December no one had heard of coronavirus and he was five goals clear of his nearest rival in the race for the Golden Boot .
Fast forward 10 weeks and Arsenal ’s Pierre - Emerick Aubameyang has drawn level on 17 so it ’s up to Leicester ’s talisman to hit back .
It could be a thriller .
Join me ...
Updated at 2.04pm EST

Van Gogh's Sunflowers under coronavirus quarantine in Tokyo .
2020-02-28 15:15:48 +00:00 .
It ’s lucky they do n’t need watering – for Van Gogh ’s Sunflowers have become the latest casualty of the coronavirus outbreak .
And they ’re currently being forced into a period of self - isolation .
The painting was on its way from London ’s National Gallery to Tokyo ’s National Museum of Western Art as part of a travelling show of 60 lauded artworks .
It was the first time Van Gogh ’s masterpiece had left Europe .
However , following the Covid-19 outbreak in Japan , the country ’s culture ministry has ordered the two - week closure of all national art museums .
The show – Masterpieces from the National Gallery , London – was due to open on 3 March but will now remain closed until 16 March .
In the meantime , some of Europe ’s most prized art will remain in the Japanese museum ’s quarantine section – experiencing a brief respite from being stared at , day in , day out , for decades on end .
Japan has imposed strict measures in the hope of containing the virus since it was first detected in the country .
Prime minister Shinzo Abe announced the closing of all schools until the end of March , a move that affects 13 million students .
There have been more than 200 cases of the virus reported in Japan , with latest figures showing four reported deaths .
In addition , there have been more than 700 cases and six deaths from the cruise ship Diamond Princess docked at Yokohama .
A woman from Osaka who had recovered from the illness is said to be the first recorded person to have been tested positive for a second time .
The closure of the country ’s galleries will cause considerable disruption to the Japanese tourist industry , and an extended closure is possibile .
In a statement London ’s National Gallery said : “ We are consulting closely with our partners … we hope that the exhibition will be able to open on 17 March 2020 , or as soon as possible after that . ”

New chancellor will not want to be 'creature of No 10' – David Gauke .
2020-02-24 16:26:01 +00:00 .
A former Conservative cabinet minister has said the chancellor , Rishi Sunak , will want to avoid becoming a “ creature of No 10 ” amid pressure on the new appointee to raise government borrowing sharply .
David Gauke , the former justice secretary who was expelled from the Conservatives for defying Boris Johnson over Brexit ,
said that Sunak risked putting the public finances on an unsustainable path , given the headwinds facing the British economy .
Acknowledging that spending needed to rise to end a decade of austerity that he helped to instigate as a Treasury minister between 2010 to 2017 , Gauke said : “ You have got a new chancellor who will want to establish that he is not a creature of No 10 ; who is independent . ”
However , he said that Sunak might raise borrowing at the budget on 11 March .
“ He , I would imagine , would want to assert that independence .
If not necessarily on 11 March , sooner rather than later . ”
Gauke ’s comments at an event hosted by the Resolution Foundation thinktank in London come as Sunak prepares to reveal what is widely expected to be one of the most expansionary Tory budgets in a generation .
The 39 - year - old replaced Sajid Javid when the former chancellor dramatically resigned earlier this month after a confrontation with No 10 .
Javid had been labelled in Westminster circles as “ chino ” – chancellor in name only – while commentators warned that Sunak could become known as “ baby chino ” , given his rapid rise to become one of the youngest chancellors in history .
Sunak is believed to be under pressure from No 10 to relax public borrowing rules set by Javid before the election that force day - to - day spending to be matched with tax receipts by 2023 .
Investment spending on long - term infrastructure projects must not exceed 3 % of GDP .
Gauke , who ran as an independent at the election but lost to the Tories in his former seat of South West Hertfordshire , said the government ’s plans to raise spending could result in the UK ’s national debt rising as a proportion of GDP .
Saying this was a “ very strange position to find ourselves in ” , particularly for a Tory government , he added that there were fundamental constraints for the government and risks that debt could be rising as the economy falters .
He warned that Brexit or the coronavirus outbreak could damage growth and the public purse .
He said : “ If we had a downturn in the economy , are we saying that debt to GDP grows slowly and then grows very quickly , before reverting to growing slowly again ?
That strikes me as an unsustainable position . ”
The former Treasury minister , who was second - in - command under Philip Hammond and served under George Osborne , said the department with overarching control over tax and spending decisions needed to be “ pretty tight with public spending , and making sure we do prioritise ” .
He said the alternative would be tax increases , which the Tory party was unwilling to contemplate .
In recognition of the bind facing the chancellor , Gauke said the ministry of justice had faced an “ essentially unsustainable ” funding settlement during his time in charge of the department .
Warning that the government ’s planned tough approach to prison sentencing would mean higher prisoner numbers in future – requiring more prison officers and greater funding – he said : “ Those pressures are going to increase yet further . ”

Britons with suspected coronavirus say PHE gave conflicting advice .
2020-02-12 18:48:38 +00:00 .
People in the UK who suspect they may have coronavirus have complained about receiving confusing and contradictory advice from health authorities .
Guardian readers across the country reported they had been left unsure about how to respond when they started feeling unwell .
The UK chief medical officers are currently advising anyone experiencing a cough , fever or shortness of breath who has travelled to the UK from mainland China , Thailand , Japan , South Korea , Hong Kong , Taiwan , Singapore , Malaysia or Macau in the past 14 days to stay indoors and call NHS 111 .
As of Wednesday , more than 1,750 people have been tested for the virus in the UK , of which nine were confirmed positive .
Three of those tested were Jemima , her mum Zoe and dad Oliver , who were cleared nearly two weeks ago after Oliver returned from China with some symptoms .
Jemima , whose dad is a WWF charity worker , said the advice being given to them by people at PHE kept changing and was confusing .
“ After he recovered following some symptoms , he was told he did n’t need to be tested and should just stay at home , ” she said .
“ It was only a week later , after mum and I started not feeling well , that PHE said we should self - quarantine and not leave our rooms until they could bring us in to get tested .
At this point , they did n’t think Dad needed testing because he was n’t showing any symptoms . ”
The family were then told that all three needed testing and that they should drive to the Royal Surrey County hospital in Guildford , where they would be met .
“ The level of disorganisation from PHE was terrible , ” the 24 - year - old said .
“ We were told there would be a space for us to park , but there was n’t .
We looped the car park and after 5 - 10 minutes people in protective gear were walking towards us shouting at people to get out of the way . ”
Zoe , who works at a school , said the tests were quite straightforward .
Their temperatures were taken , as well as nose and throat swabs , urine samples , blood pressure and blood tests .
The family were given the all clear .
“ We ’re so relieved , ” said Jemima .
“ The most stressful part was thinking we could have been infecting other people during the time when PHE advised us it was fine to go outside . ”
Another reader , Steve , told the Guardian that he had been given contradictory advice by the NHS 111 helpline , Public Health England and his GP about who could refer him for testing after he developed symptoms following a trip to Singapore .
“ I believe that the miscommunications and lack of a joined - up approach caused a delay in my testing of 24 hours and that if my wife had not directly contacted our local NHS hospital ( against the advice given by NHS 111 and Public Health England ) , then I could still be waiting to be tested , ” he said .
He said his GP did not feel that testing was urgent and that the hospital doctor removed his protective equipment when testing him .
“ I ’m now continuing to self - isolate at home while waiting for Public Health England to provide the results of my testing , but with no confidence that this will be done in a reasonable timescale , ” he said .
One reader said she developed symptoms after returning to the UK from the Philippines .
She put herself into quarantine following advice from 111 , but has no way of taking herself to get tested at a hospital .
“ They are asking me to get a friend to take me to the hospital to get tested , ” she said , suggesting this was counterintuitive as the friend could get infected .

UK man linked to several coronavirus cases speaks from hospital .
2020-02-11 10:53:39 +00:00 .
A businessman who inadvertently infected at least 11 people with the coronavirus has identified himself in a statement from hospital in which he said his thoughts were with others who had contracted the potentially fatal illness .
Steve Walsh , 53 , who is in an isolation unit at St Thomas ’ hospital in London , which has a specialist infectious disease centre , said he had fully recovered .
Walsh unknowingly contracted the disease at a sales conference in Singapore between 20 and 22 January and then went on a ski trip to the French Alps before returning home .
The coronavirus has a two - week incubation period .
He is believed to have transmitted the virus to several people in France and Public Health England ( PHE ) said on Monday that four people in Brighton linked to him had tested positive .
As a result , the East Sussex city has become the centre of the crisis in the UK , with five of eight cases across the country identified there .
In his statement , Walsh said : “ I would like to thank the NHS for their help and care – whilst I have fully recovered , my thoughts are with others who have contracted coronavirus .
As soon as I knew I had been exposed to a confirmed case of coronavirus I contacted my GP , NHS 111 and Public Health England .
“ I was advised to attend an isolated room at hospital , despite showing no symptoms , and subsequently self - isolated at home as instructed .
When the diagnosis was confirmed I was sent to an isolation unit in hospital , where I remain , and , as a precaution , my family was also asked to isolate themselves . ”
He thanked friends , family and colleagues for their support and asked the media to respect their privacy .
Walsh , believed to be a super - spreader – someone who transmits infections to far more people than the majority do – was transferred to St Thomas ’ hospital from Brighton on Thursday .
In a statement the company he works for , Servomex , said : “ We are very pleased that Steve Walsh has made a full recovery .
We continue to provide support to him and his family .
We are working with public health authorities to ensure the welfare of our staff and communities and wish anyone with the virus a quick and full recovery . ”
Walsh ’s statement came as it emerged a second GP surgery in Brighton had shut its doors following the outbreak of coronavirus in the city .
On Monday , the County Oak medical centre closed because of an “ urgent operational health and safety reason ” , after a member of staff contracted the virus .
On Tuesday morning it emerged that a second branch of the same practice , located less than two miles away , had also closed .
A sign fixed to the door of the Deneway branch said : “ The surgery is closed due to organisational health and safety reasons .
Please contact 111 if you need to speak to a health professional . ”
PHE said two of the four additional cases in Brighton announced on Monday involved healthcare workers .
It said it was working to identify other healthcare workers and patients who had been in contact with them as well as people who had close and sustained contact with other people confirmed to have the virus .
PHE has been contacting passengers who sat near Walsh on his flight home on 28 January , flight EZS8481 from Geneva to Gatwick .

Whistleblower doctor who fell victim to China's coronavirus outbreak .
2020-02-06 21:08:11 +00:00 .
For most of his life , Li Wenliang was a successful but anonymous ophthalmologist , father and husband , based in the central Chinese city of Wuhan .
But over the past two months , the 34 - year - old had become a household name in China , known to hundreds of millions of people as the face and conscience of its spiralling coronavirus crisis .
Late on Thursday , after state - controlled media outlets reported he had died days earlier , the news was met with an extraordinary nationwide outpouring of grief and anger on social media .
The response was an indication of how powerfully his story had resonated around the country as hundreds of millions of people faced down the threat of a new disease , of still unknown lethality .
Li tried to warn fellow doctors in the early days of the outbreak , posting a message alerting them to a mystery new disease at his hospital in late December .
Seven people were in quarantine , the symptoms were similar to Sars , and doctors should consider wearing protective equipment to stop themselves getting infected , he said .
For that public health warning he was pursued by security forces who came to his house four days later , accused him of “ making false comments ” , and acting illegally to disturb social order .
He signed a statement agreeing not to discuss the disease further .
Yet within a week he would be infected himself , and within two weeks , China and the world would be talking of little else beyond the new disease , now identified as a coronavirus .
Li himself
was infected when he operated on a patient with glaucoma , who he did not know was carrying the virus .
On 10 January he started to feel sick , and symptoms worsened over the rest of the month .
Hospitalised with fever and breathing problems , as he fought the illness he also decided to fight the government , going public with details of how he had been silenced in the name of stability .
He shared documents online and carried out interviews via text message , helping reporters piece together an alarming picture of official incompetence and negligence in the very period when containment might have been most possible .
Almost overnight , he became a public figure – and a particularly rare one willing to take on the government in a system designed to muffle or crush dissent .
Local authorities did eventually apologise to him and seven others investigated for “ spreading rumours ” , as public anger about the cover - up spread , and the central government admitted the crisis had been mishandled in its early days .
But it came too late for hundreds who have died , tens of thousands who have been infected and Li himself .
His stance , and his illness , seemed particularly poignant to many because he is father to a young child , and his wife is pregnant with their second baby .
His parents were also reported to have contracted the coronavirus , but the health status of his wife and children is not clear .
After several negative tests , on 30 January he was finally confirmed as one of thousands of coronavirus patients , he said on a social media post , along with an emoji of a dog with eyes rolled back and tongue hanging out , the BBC reported .
“ Today nucleic acid testing came back with a positive result , the dust has settled .
Finally diagnosed . ”

Coronavirus evacuation flight to Canada leaves some family members stranded .
2020-02-06 18:46:29 +00:00 .
As an airplane chartered by the Canadian government departs central China on Thursday , hundreds of evacuees will breathe a sigh of relief as they leave Wuhan , the center of the coronavirus outbreak .
The plane is scheduled to land at a Canadian Air Force base early Friday , according to foreign minister Francois - Philippe Champagne .
But others with close ties to Canada will remain trapped in the quarantined city : the evacuation flight is only open to Canadian passport holders .
Permanent residents and Chinese citizens are not eligible for a seat , unless they are the primary caregiver of a child on the flight manifest .
Among those stranded are Canadian permanent residents Danni Luo and her eight - year - old daughter Qinlin Li , who travelled to Wuhan on 19 January to celebrate Chinese lunar new year with family .
“ They ’re not on that airplane .
And I have no indication from the Canadian government that they will be on any airplane ever , ” said Luo ’s husband Monte Gisborne , speaking from the family home in Coquitlam , British Columbia .
Gisborne said he feared the virus was “ closing in ” on his family .
“ Their neighbours are dying .
My wife ’s mother ’s best friend has died of the coronavirus , ” he said .
“ There are reported infections in the buildings around them .
It ’s like everything is closing in on them . ”
Canada will send a second flight to help those unable to board the first plane on 10 February , according to Champagne , and the United States has also offered seats on an evacuation flight later on Thursday .
But it remained unclear if the offers will be open to non - citizens .
Luo and Li initially planned to return home on 15 February .
But as news of the virus spread and panic seized the city , Luo changed their tickets 28 January as a precautionary measure .
Days later , however , Chinese authorities shut down transportation to and from the city , rendering the tickets useless .
Gisborne said he had struggled to get answers from Canadian officials as he waits for his wife and daughter to return .
“ I ’m so frustrated .
I ’m so fed up with this lack of communication , lack of planning , lack of direction . ”
Wayne Duplessis and Emily Tjandra , who work as teachers in Wuhan , initially welcomed news an aircraft would be taking Canadians out of the locked - down city .
But they soon realized an evacuation would separate their family .
Duplessis and his 15 - year - old son Wyatt are Canadian citizens ; Emily and her older son Adryan , 38 , are not .
As they weighed their options , Duplessis said that advice from Canadian officials often arrived too late to be of use .
“ By the time I got the most recent details about the evacuation flight , people were already at the airport , ” he said .
“ I do n’t mean to be judgemental … but there are people here that need help – and they need some clear answers . ”
With roads shut down and no private cars or taxis on the road , just reaching the airport is a logistical challenge , he said .
Further complicating matters is that Adryan , also a teacher , is trapped on the other side of the city at one of the school ’s campuses .
Because of the uncertainty , Duplessis and his wife have decided to stay in Wuhan .
The family is “ relatively comfortable ” , with access to food and water in the high - rise apartment , he said .
“ Normally , there ’s just so much humanity here .
It ’s wonderful , ” he said .
“ But you ’re not seeing that any more .
It ’s empty .
The only reminder there are even people around you is at night , when their lights are turned on . ”

Coronavirus: Qantas suspends direct flights to China following US and Singapore bans .
2020-02-01 04:13:14 +00:00 .
Qantas has announced it is suspending direct flights to and from mainland China following bans in the US and Singapore that affect crew logistics .
Earlier , the Queensland premier , Annastacia Palaszczuk , called on the federal government to halt all flights to Australia from China as the death toll from coronavirus rises .
On Friday the Trump administration announced the US was suspending the entry of foreign nationals who had travelled to China in the last 14 days .
It is also redirecting flights from China to a handful of airports .
Qantas says it will suspend its direct flights to Beijing and Shanghai from 9 February until 29 March .
Flights to Hong Kong will not be affected .
“ Qantas will suspend its two direct services to mainland China ( Sydney - Beijing and Sydney - Shanghai ) from 9 February until 29 March 2020 , ” its statement said .
“ This follows entry restrictions imposed by countries including Singapore and the United States , which impact the movement of crew who work across the Qantas International network . ”
Palaszczuk told reporters in Brisbane on Saturday that she backed “ recommendations in relation to no more incoming flights until the virus is contained ” .
“ I do n’t often agree with Donald Trump , but I do agree with the US authorities on this occasion that I think we should take every measure possible to combat this virus , ” she added .
A spokesman for the prime minister , Scott Morrison , said national security officials would hear from the chief medical officer , Prof Brendan Murphy , in Sydney on Saturday .
Chinese state media reports 259 people have now died from coronavirus and 11,791 cases have been recorded , while a fourth case has been confirmed in Victoria .
The Melbourne woman aged in her 20s became ill two days after returning from Chinese city of Wuhan , the epicentre of the outbreak , last Saturday .
Health authorities say she was not infectious en route and is recovering in isolation at home .
On Friday , Palaszczuk accused the federal government of withholding information her government needed to contact travellers who had arrived in Queensland from China .
She said officials had since begun handing over more data .
A 44 - year - old man and a 42 - year - old woman from Hubei province who were confirmed to have the virus were recovering in a stable condition in Gold Coast University Hospital .
Seven others in their travel group remained in quarantine .
The Chinese Women ’s football team , which was in quarantine in the Westin Brisbane hotel , have not shown symptoms of the virus .
A Qantas passenger plane was poised on Saturday to evacuate Australians stranded at the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak as soon as Chinese officials approved the plan .

Coronavirus latest updates: US bans foreign arrivals from China as deaths hit 259 – live news .
2020-02-01 00:46:31 +00:00 .
7.45pm EST 19:45 Reuters is reporting that the northern Chinese city of Tianjin has ordered schools and non - essential companies to remain closed until further notice to curb the spread of the coronavirus that has already infected thousands in the country , a local government - run newspaper said .
Tianjin Daily , said the date when work and school could resume would be announced at a later stage , citing a local government committee responsible for controlling the epidemic .
Tianjin , which has a population of around 15 million and borders capital Beijing , had 32 confirmed cases of coronavirus as of 10 pm local time on 31 January .
7.41pm EST 19:41
Hello and welcome to our coverage of the coronavirus outbreak .
Here is a quick summary of where we are up to :
The number of confirmed deaths from China ’s coronavirus outbreak has risen to 258 , as authorities in hardest - hit Hubei province reported 45 new fatalities .
Cases of infection in China now stand at more than 11,000 The Trump administration has declared a public health emergency over the coronavirus outbreak .
It has also announced it will temporarily bar entry to the US for people travelling from China unless they are Americans or immediately related to US citizens .
Two patients in England , who are members of the same family
, have tested positive for coronavirus .
They are being treated in Newcastle .
The Foreign Office said it was ‘ aware of frustrations ’ of Brits who had wanted to leave Wuhan but proved unable to board the evacuation plane .
Michael Gove told Sky News the government would send another plane to Wuhan to evacuate British nationals if needed .
Russia has reported its first two cases of coronavirus .
Russia ’s deputy prime minister Tatiana Golikova told reporters the infected people were Chinese citizens who had been isolated .
The plane carrying 83 Britons to the UK from Wuhan in China landed at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire and the evacuees were driven to a facility on the Wirral where they will stay in quarantine for the next 14 days .
Thailand has recorded its first human - to - human transmission of the coronavirus after a taxi driver was apparently infected by a traveller .
The Trump administration has declared a public health emergency over the coronavirus outbreak .
It has also announced it will temporarily bar entry to the US for people traveling from China .
A plan to evacuate Australians stranded in China is likely to go ahead over the weekend , the AAP news agency is reporting .
Here is our latest news wrap :

US confirms two more coronavirus cases, bringing total to five .
2020-01-26 21:01:45 +00:00 .
America ’s fourth and fifth cases of coronavirus were confirmed on Sunday after health officials in California and Arizona announced that they were each treating a patient infected with the deadly illness .
Los Angeles County Department of Public Health said the patient is a “ returning traveller ” from Wuhan City – the epicentre of the outbreak in Hubei Province , China – who sought medical attention when they realised they were unwell .
Health officials said the infected person is being treated in hospital , but to protect patient privacy declined to name the hospital location .
The virus has so far infected over 2,000 people globally and killed 56 people in China .
At least 20 Chinese cities have been placed on lockdown in a bid to prevent its spread and cities across Hubei province are under travel restrictions .
The LA case marked the first in Los Angeles county and the fourth case in the US .
Another three had previously been reported in Orange county , California , Illinois and Washington state .
Then later on Sunday the fifth known case in the US was confirmed in Arizona , though fewer details were immediately available .
Health officials in LA county said they are working to identify people who may have had close contact with the person – including friends , family members and health care professionals – so that they can be monitored for signs of illness .
Barbara Ferrer , Director of Los Angeles County Department of Public Health , said they are “ well prepared ” to deal with cases and suspected cases .
“ We are working closely with our federal , state and local partners to provide healthcare providers and the public with accurate information about actions we are taking to reduce the spread of novel coronavirus and to care for those who are ill , ” she added .
“ As with other respiratory illnesses , there are steps that everyone can take to reduce the risk of getting sick from circulating viruses , including coronavirus .
This includes remaining home when ill , washing hands with soap and water frequently , and getting vaccinated against flu . ”
She said they are daily learning more about the virus , how it is transmitted and incubation periods , but that the risk of transmission in the county “ remains low ” .
It comes after the US State Department said on Sunday that it plans to evacuate staff from its Wuhan consulate and will offer some US citizens flights out of the city .
Some private US citizens will be allowed to board a “ single flight ” leaving the city on Tuesday for San Francisco .
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , director - general of the World Health Organisation , said on Sunday that he was on his way to Beijing to meet with the Chinese government and health experts working on the response to the virus .
“ My WHO colleagues and I would like to understand the latest developments and strengthen our partnership with China in providing further protection against the outbreak , ” he wrote on Twitter .

What is coronavirus and how worried should we be? .
2020-01-22 11:47:29 +00:00 .
It is a novel coronavirus – that is to say , a member of the coronavirus family that has never been encountered before .
Like other coronaviruses , it has come from animals – possibly seafood .
Many of those infected either worked or frequently shopped in the Huanan seafood wholesale market in the centre of the Chinese city .
New and troubling viruses usually originate in animal hosts .
Ebola and flu are examples .
Severe acute respiratory syndrome ( Sars ) and Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome ( Mers ) are both caused by coronaviruses that came from animals .
Although Mers is believed to be transmitted to humans from dromedaries , the original hosts for both coronaviruses were probably bats .
The first cases of Sars were in China in late 2002 .
The authorities played them down and were subsequently much criticised because the virus spread virtually unchecked to 37 countries , causing global panic , infecting more than 8,000 people and killing more than 750 .
Mers appears to be less easily passed from human to human , but has greater lethality , killing 35 % of about 2,500 people who have been infected .
The virus causes pneumonia .
Those who have fallen ill are reported to suffer coughs , fever and breathing difficulties .
As this is viral pneumonia , antibiotics are of no use .
Antiviral drugs may be used , but usually only lessen the severity of symptoms .
If people are admitted to hospital , they may get breathing support as well as fluids .
Recovery will depend on the strength of their immune system .
Those who have died are known to have been already in poor health .
Human to human transmission has been confirmed by China ’s national health commission , although it does not appear to be happening easily as was the case with Sars .
As of 22 January the Chinese authorities had acknowledged 440 cases and nine deaths .
In the last week , the number of confirmed infections has more than tripled and cases have been found in 13 provinces , as well as the municipalities Beijing , Shanghai , Chongqing and Tianjin .
The virus has also been confirmed outside China , in the US , Thailand , South Korea , Taiwan and Japan .
The actual number to have contracted the virus could be far higher as people with mild symptoms may not have been detected .
There are fears that the coronavirus may spread more widely and person to person during the week - long lunar new year holidays , which start on 24 January , when millions of Chinese travel home to celebrate .
At the moment , it appears that people in poor health are at greatest risk , as is always the case with flu .
A key concern is the range of severity of symptoms – some people appear to suffer only mild illness while others are becoming severely ill .
This makes it more difficult to establish the true numbers infected and the extent of transmission between people .
But the authorities will be keen to stop the spread and will be anxious that the virus could become more potent than it so far appears .
No .
The spread of the virus outside China is a worrying but not unexpected development .
It increases the likelihood that the World Health Organization will declare the outbreak to be a public health emergency of international concern when it meets on Wednesday .
There have not been any confirmed cases in the UK at present , but there is definitely potential for cases to emerge due to the volume of international air travel .
Those at greatest risk are probably healthcare workers , who might come across someone with respiratory symptoms who had travelled to an affected region .
Experts say there is no need for people to change their travel plans at this stage , but basic hygiene measures such as washing hands are sensible .

Paris cafes, bars and restaurants to reopen to outdoor space row .
2020-05-31 12:51:43 +00:00 .
Paris is gearing up for a battle for public space after the city ’s mayor , Anne Hidalgo , said cafes , bars and restaurants would be temporarily allowed to set up tables on pavements and in parking spaces when they open this week .
Coronavirus lockdown measures are being eased further on Tuesday , with food and drink establishment opening across most of France for the first time since 14 March .
However , because Paris remains “ orange ” on the country ’s Covid-19 map , meaning the virus is still circulating , bar , cafe and restaurant owners have been told they can only serve customers outside on terraces and with strict physical distancing and protection measures in place .
“ We have adopted a plan to help bars and restaurants for at least six months from March until the end of September , ” Hidalgo told Le Parisian .
“ One of these measures is the free occupation of a part of space in Paris .
It could be pavements where possible or parking places .
We could also close certain roads to traffic for some weekends to allow bars and restaurants to have more space . ”
The establishments will be required to register their request to use the public space online and sign up to a 10 - point “ charter ” of good behaviour .
Along with physical distancing and protection measures , bars , cafes and restaurants must close at 11 pm ; limit noise nuisances ; avoid blocking pavements to pushchairs and people with reduce mobility ; not install electrical equipment , or use plastic cups ; and ensure the terraces are kept clean , particularly of cigarette ends .
Hidalgo said city hall wanted to start with a “ principle of trust ” , but warned if establishments broke the charter they would be fined and their permission to use temporary terraces revoked .
The Socialist mayor , who is up for reelection in the second round of municipal elections , postponed from March until 28 June because of the coronavirus , rejected accusations of electioneering from her centre - right rival Rachida Dati .
“ I have a responsibility not to wait until 28 June to act .
There are hundreds of jobs involved , ” Hidalgo said .
The mayor has also said the extra 50 km ( 31 miles ) of cycle lanes - nicknamed “ coronapaths ” – installed during the health crisis to encourage bike use may become permanent .
During her six years in office , Hidalgo has made reducing the number of private cars and air pollution a key element of her mayoralty .
“ We do n’t want to go backwards … a new way of thinking is necessary , ” she said .
The centre - right newspaper Le Figaro said the moves were part of a new global “ war for public space ” sparked by Covid-19 that would pit “ pedestrians v diners , cycles v cars ” .

Serie A gets the go-ahead to resume in just over three weeks .
2020-05-28 20:50:17 +00:00 .
Top - flight football has been given the go - ahead to resume in Italy from 20 June .
Italy ’s minister for sport , Vincenzo Spadafora , said that Serie A would be allowed to restart after a conference call involving the league , the players ’ association and the Italian Football Federation .
“ The meeting was very useful , ” Spadafora said .
“ Now Italy is starting again and it is right that soccer starts again too .
“ If the curve changes and the league has to be stopped again , the Italian soccer federation has assured me that there exists a plan B – play - offs – and also a plan C – leaving the standings as they are . ”
This month the Italian federation set a deadline of 20 August for the completion of the current season , and a 1 September start date for the following campaign .
A statement read : “ The FIGC has expressed its willingness to restart and complete the national professional competition by setting the last closing date for Serie A , B and C competitions to 20 August .
“ Prior to the restart of the competitive activity , it will be the responsibility of the federal council to determine the criteria for defining competitions where , due to Covid-19 , the season should be suspended again . ”
Serie A has been suspended since 9 March , when the government ordered a nationwide lockdown because of the coronavirus pandemic .
The league ’s 20 teams agreed this month to resume competition on 13 June in empty stadiums .
But , after a government decree days later banning sports until 14 June , the Italian federation swiftly announced that it would comply .
However , it had hoped for special dispensation .
“ The league will restart on 20 June , ” Spadafora said .
“ There ’s then the possibility that the Italian Cup semi - finals and final can be played on 13 and 17 June . ”
There are 12 rounds remaining in Serie A , plus four matches that were postponed from the 25th round .
Juventus , who are bidding for a record - extending ninth successive Serie A title , have a one - point advantage over Lazio .
Third - placed Internazionale are nine points behind Juventus but have played a match less .

Tui cancels all foreign holidays until 1 July .
2020-05-28 17:34:34 +00:00 .
Britain ’s biggest tour operator Tui has cancelled all its foreign holidays until 1 July , and some that were not due to depart until November .
The company , which had previously hoped to resume package holiday excursions on 12 June , said it had extended the suspension of trips “ due to the ongoing travel restrictions ” .
Tui holidays that were due to depart next month will not now be happening , it said .
The company has also cancelled its lakes and mountain holidays up until 30 September , and its river cruises until 25 November .
Many travellers have been hoping that travel operators would be up and running again by the autumn .
A statement on the Tui website states : “ Due to the ongoing situation regarding COVID-19 , the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised against all but essential travel .
“ If your holiday falls into one of the below categories , we ’re really sorry to say that it has been cancelled . ”
The company has offered affected customers a 20 % incentive in the hope of persuading them to rebook another trip rather than to take a full refund as required by law .
Back in March the government advised against all non - essential journeys , which stopped all foreign travel in its tracks .
There has been no indication on when this restriction might be eased and home secretary Priti Patel announced last week that all travellers arriving in the UK , including UK residents , would face a mandatory 14 - day quarantine from 8 June .
The move has drawn substantial criticism from airlines .
On Thursday the bosses of 70 travel firms wrote a joint letter to Patel calling on her to scrap the quarantine period , which they argue will halt future bookings .
“ The very last thing the travel industry needs is a mandatory quarantine imposed on all arriving passengers , which will deter foreign visitors from coming here , deter UK visitors from travelling abroad and , most likely , cause other countries to impose reciprocal quarantine requirements on British visitors , ” it said .
Last week the Competition and Markets Authority said it was investigating package holiday firms after receiving thousands of complaints from consumers who have been unable to recoup money on cancelled breaks .
The UK Civil Aviation Authority is separately reviewing the way that airlines are treating their customers , and has warned them that it did not “ expect airlines to systematically deny consumers their right to a refund ” .

EasyJet to cut up to 30% of workforce, shrink fleet amid Covid-19 crisis - business live .
2020-05-28 07:10:12 +00:00 .
3.03am EDT 03:03
Investors in Europe are again shrugging off tensions in Hong Kong , extending an upward run on stocks since Tuesday .
Here ’s now major indices have opened : FTSE 100 up 0.8 % FTSE 250 up 0.9 % France ’s CAC 40 up 0.6 % Spain ’s IBEX up 0.6 % Germany ’s DAX up 0.7 % Updated at 3.03am EDT 2.59am EDT 02:59 Introduction : EasyJet to cut up to 4,500 jobs Good morning and welcome to our rolling coverage of the world economy , the financial markets , eurozone and business .
EasyJet has laid out fresh cost cutting plans that will involve axing up to a third of its 15,000 - strong workforce in response to the Covid-19 crisis .
EasyJet said its fleet will also involve 51 fewer aircraft than expected by year - end 2021 .
The move , which will impact up to 4,500 staff , is being announced just weeks before it is set to re - start some flights ( primarily domestic routes in the UK and France ) on 15 June .
The budget airline said it is preparing itself for a prolonged drop in bookings , citing projections by the International Air Transport Association ( IATA ) .
IATA has said levels of demand last seen in 2019 are unlikely to be reached until 2023 .
Elsewhere , markets were mixed in Asia , after the US announced that it no longer views Hong Kong as autonomous from China .
It comes as China prepares to impose a new security law that would drastically limit civil liberties in the territory .
The US declaration could have a serious impact on the Hong Kong economy , particularly if its financial sector is hit by sanctions as a result of the move .
It sent the Heng Seng down 0.57 % in trading on Thursday .
The agenda 10 am BST : Eurozone business confidence for May 13.00pm BST : German HICP and CPI inflation ( preliminary reading ) for May 13:30pm BST : US weekly jobless claims , and second estimate of Q1 GDP

Studies add to alarm over deforestation in Brazil under Bolsonaro .
2020-05-28 05:07:25 +00:00 .
Two studies have raised further alarm about deforestation in Brazil during the first year of the far - right president Jair Bolsonaro ’s government .
One study showed the country lost 12,000 km2 ( 4,633 sq miles ) of forest last year and also provided important information about those behind deforestation .
The other research flagged a 27 % increase in the destruction of tropical forests in eastern Brazil .
Both studies were released days after it was revealed that the environment minister , Ricardo Salles , had advocated that the government use the cover of the coronavirus pandemic to further weaken the country ’s increasingly shaky environmental protection laws .
Amazon deforestation and fires have soared since Bolsonaro took office in January 2019 , vowing to end the “ fines industry ” of environment agencies and develop the rainforest .
“ We need to make an effort while we are in a quiet moment for press coverage because they only talk about Covid , ” Salles said in a ministerial meeting in April .
Video of the meeting was released on Friday and showed the minister using an expression about cattle to push for “ changing all the rules and simplifying norms ” .
Environmentalists had warned that this was what the government had been doing .
“ The government ’s position is weaken policies and this increases deforestation , ” said Mariana Mota , a public policy specialist at Greenpeace Brasil .
“ The deforestation numbers do n’t lie . ”
The first annual study by MapBiomas – a coalition of NGOs , universities and technology companies – confirmed deforestation alerts from Brazil ’s Space Research Institute with high resolution images .
The study found 7,700km2 of the deforestation was in the Amazon .
More than three - quarters happened on land registered via a self - registration system Brazilian farmers use to claim ownership - and 99 % of deforestation was illegal , MapBiomas found .
The Bolsonaro government is trying to approve a law that would allow farmers who had illegally occupied land on protected reserves before a cutoff date to claim legal title , legislation environmentalists have called the “ land grabbers ” bill . Brazil ’s vice - president , Gen Hamilton Mourão , leads an “ Amazon council ” and an environmental operation by thousands of Brazilian soldiers whose effectiveness has been questioned by local media .
On 15 May he said the law would help the government fight deforestation .
“ [ If ] we do not know who owns the land , we can not bring [ anybody ] to justice , ” Mourão said .
A vote on the law was postponed this week amid outrage over Salles ’s comments .
The MapBiomas study shows Brazil already knows who is responsible for deforestation .
The issue is not finding the offenders , it is that fines are often ignored .
A study by Human Rights Watch shows that Amazon fines have been suspended since October after the introduction of new procedures by the Bolsonaro government .
The NGO SOS Atlantic Forest has also released figures that showed a 27 % increase in the destruction of tropical forests in 17 states in eastern Brazil from October 2018 to October 2019 after two years of falling deforestation .
The study showed 145km2 were felled in the region .

How will England's coronavirus test and trace system work .
2020-05-27 16:39:20 +00:00 .
The new “ NHS test and trace ” system kicks in when a patient receives a positive test result for coronavirus .
Unlike in the early days of the outbreak , everyone experiencing symptoms will be expected to take a test .
At the same time as ordering the test , by calling 119 , or going to the NHS website , patients will be asked to take part in the tracking programme .
If the result of their test is positive , anyone they have been in close contact with will then be contacted , and asked to self - isolate for 14 days , even if they have no symptoms .
It means anyone who has been within 2 metres of the infected person for more than 15 minutes without protective equipment - something test and trace chief Dido Harding says should be rare if workplaces are operating in accordance with “ Covid - secure ” guidelines .
The government also hopes the requirements of the new system in England will focus the public ’s minds on the importance of continuing to stay 2 metres apart from others , as much as possible .
Once the app is up and running , the patient ’s mobile phone should automatically identify anyone they have come close to .
But until that happens , patients will be asked to identify likely contacts themselves , via an online process .
Matt Hancock , the health secretary , announced the pilot of a new NHS tracing app on the Isle of Wight earlier this month , and had hoped it would form an integral part of the contact - tracing system , saying : “ Where the Isle of Wight leads , Britain follows . ”
But it is yet to be cleared for launch , as developers tackle glitches .
Ministers have been stressing more recently that on - the - ground tracing , involving local public health teams as well as call - centre staff , is more important .
Not to begin with .
Harding stressed that , for the time being , the new system will rely on the voluntary compliance of the public .
But ministers do have the legal power to enforce self - isolation requirements with fines , if it is deemed necessary at a later stage .
Travellers who break the new quarantine regime for arrivals at airports and ports will already be charged up to £ 1,000 if they breach the restrictions .
The latest official daily testing capacity figure was a record 154,120 , and the Department of Health insists it will achieve the 200,000 - a - day target set by the prime minister by the end of May – later this week .
Former health secretary Jeremy Hunt has warned that long waits for some test results could hamper the effectiveness of the new system .
Harding has acknowledged that she is keen to increase the speed of the entire system , including the turnaround times for results , some of which are still taking more than 24 hours to return .
They should n’t : Harding suggested if people in a particular workplace or local area appear are repeatedly showing up as in close contact with sufferers , local public health authorities could intervene to investigate .
Part of the rationale for the new system is meant to be to allow local , small - scale action to be taken , such as shutting down particular services or businesses , where there appears to be an outbreak .
No .
Scientific advice remains that we can not be certain whether having had the virus means a patient has immunity .
So even someone who has had a positive test for Covid-19 in the past , will have to stay at home for 14 days if they have come into contact with a new sufferer .

Dominic Cummings faces questions over altered virus blogpost .
2020-05-27 06:42:00 +00:00 .
Dominic Cummings is facing questions about his claim in Monday ’s press conference to have written last year about the “ possible threat of coronaviruses ” after it emerged that a blogpost published in March 2019 was rewritten last month to insert a reference to “ Sars coronavirus ” .
The post , published to his personal blog on 4 March last year , is largely a lengthy excerpt from research published in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists warning about the risks of viruses escaping secure laboratories .
In April 2020 , the excerpt was edited to add a quote about a “ well - publicised incident in China in which ‘ two researchers conducting virus research were exposed to severe acute respiratory syndrome ( Sars ) coronavirus samples that were incompletely inactivated .
The researchers subsequently transmitted Sars to others , leading to several infections and one death in 2004 . ’ ” .
The article is the only mention of the word “ coronavirus ” on Cummings ’ personal blog .
First spotted by Jens Wiechers , a data scientist , the edits are verifiable through periodic snapshots of the blog saved by the Internet Archive , which shows the change occurring between 9 April and 3 May this year .
A hidden record on Cummings ’ own site shows the post was edited at 8:55pm on 14 April , the day he has told the public he had returned from his trip to Durham .
Downing Street was asked at 8 am on Tuesday to explain why Cummings , Boris Johnson ’s principal adviser , had said at the press conference that he “ last year wrote about the possible threat of coronaviruses ” , when his only apparent blogpost on the subject was edited this year to include a reference to coronaviruses for the first time – after the current pandemic had hit .
No 10 has not yet replied to the request for comment .
At the morning press briefing , Johnson ’s official spokesman said : “ I do n’t personally know anything about that . ”
Rather than warning about the threat of coronaviruses , the post was in fact a specific warning about the threat of a “ lab release ” origin for a future pandemic .
The excerpt added by Cummings does not refer to Sars - CoV-2 , the virus responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic , but to the original Sars virus , now known as Sars - CoV-1 .
There is no evidence that Sars - CoV-2 originated from a lab release , though the theory has been pushed by a number of influential sources , including the US Republican party .
Donald Trump has claimed he has seen evidence the virus escaped from a Chinese lab , but has not publicly shared the source .
Pressed to explain what he had seen , Trump said : “ I ca n’t tell you that .
I ’m not allowed to tell you that . ”

Kyoto Animation arson suspect arrested after 10 months of burns treatment .
2020-05-27 05:36:13 +00:00 .
Police in Japan have arrested the man suspected of carrying out an arson attack last year that killed 36 people , after officers waited 10 months for him to be treated for serious burns .
Shinji Aoba was arrested on murder and arson charges over the attack on the Kyoto Animation studio in western Japan , which sparked an outpouring of grief from anime fans around the world .
Police had been forced to wait until Aoba had recovered from serious burns sustained in the attack , as well as restrictions caused by the coronavirus outbreak , until they could arrest him .
On Wednesday , TV footage showed the suspect strapped to a stretcher as he was carried into a police station .
Aoba , 42 ,
is accused of entering Kyoto Animation ’s main studio via an unlocked front door on the morning of 18 July armed with two containers thought to have contained petrol .
He allegedly doused the entrance with the liquid before setting it on fire with a lighter .
About 70 people were inside the studio at the time .
It is Japan ’s deadliest blaze since 2001 , when a fire in Tokyo ’s Kabukicho entertainment district killed 44 people .
Some employees managed to flee the studio , but others attempting to escape to the roof of the three - storey building found their exit delayed by a door that survivors said had been difficult to open .
Many of the dead – 22 women and 14 men mostly in their 20s and 30s – died from carbon monoxide poisoning .
Thirty - three people were injured .
Aoba , who reportedly told police he had targeted the studio because it had plagiarised his work ,
sustained severe burns on his face , torso , and arms and legs , and was unconscious for weeks .
He is reportedly unable to walk or eat without assistance .
Kyoto Animation said it expected Aoba to be prosecuted “ to the maximum extent ” under the law .
It said in a statement : “ We have no further words for the suspect ...
Our fallen colleagues will never return , and our wounds will never heal . ”
The studio , known by its fans as KyoAni , is well known outside Japan for its role in producing popular TV anime series , including The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya , K - ON !
and Violet Evergarden .
The fire shocked anime fans around the world , and prompted tributes from the Canadian prime minister , Justin Trudeau , and Apple ’s chief executive , Tim Cook , who tweeted : “ Kyoto Animation is home to some of the world ’s most talented animators and dreamers – the devastating attack today is a tragedy felt far beyond Japan .
“ KyoAni artists spread joy all over the world and across generations with their masterpieces . ”

New Zealand deputy PM breaks ranks to urge Ardern to lift Covid-19 lockdown .
2020-05-27 01:29:35 +00:00 .
The deputy leader of New Zealand ’s government has broken ranks with the prime minister , Jacinda Ardern , decrying her refusal to drastically loosen the country ’s lockdown rules and immediately establish a trans - Tasman travel “ bubble ” with Australia .
“ We ’ve been in compulsory lockdown for far too long , ” said Winston Peters , who is the deputy prime minister and foreign minister , but is not a member of Ardern ’s Labour party .
“ Everybody who has put their heart into the future , the country ’s future , and their family ’s future realise there is only one way out of this - to think smart and work harder , ” he added , during a radio interview on Tuesday .
He had been asked by the interviewer whether he supported Ardern ’s suggestion of extra public holidays to bolster the country ’s flailing tourism sector .
His words were some of the most strident criticism of the swift , strict lockdown - which has drawn praise for Ardern worldwide - to be made by an MP , which made the fact that it came from within the prime minister ’s government , rather than from her opponents , all the more surprising .
But the comments from Peters - who is the leader of New Zealand First , a populist minor party , but holds his ministerial portfolios in power - sharing agreement with Labour - were also widely seen as a form of election - year jockeying for position as he tries to differentiate his own party from Ardern ’s ahead of the vote in September .
The prime minister said on Monday , following a cabinet meeting which Peters attended , that New Zealand would remain at its current level 2 shutdown rules - after spending close to two months at the stricter levels 4 and 3 - until at least 22 June .
Ardern ’s government shut down the country in late March , when there were just over 200 cases of Covid-19 in New Zealand , and no deaths .
A total of 21 people have since died of the virus , and there have been fewer than 1,500 confirmed cases , a result widely credited to the strength of the lockdown .
But Peters said New Zealand First MPs had told Ardern at Monday ’s meeting that she should consider a move to the lowest level 1 restrictions immediately .
“ You have to look at the percentages and say are we 98 , 99 % safe ?
If we are we ’ve got to risk it and get going , ” he said , adding that he feared for the mental health of New Zealanders if restrictions continued .
“ The enemy we ’ve got now is not Covid-19 , it ’s the inability to turn this economy around as fast as possible , ” he said .
Ardern has yet to comment .
Under level two rules , most businesses have been allowed to re - open with strict physical distancing measures in place .
Schools are back in session , and people may gather in groups of up to 10 people - which will lift to 100 on Friday .
Peters is a veteran lawmaker with a penchant for political theatre , particularly in election years .
He held a “ kingmaker ” position after the 2017 vote , when neither Labour nor National won enough seats to govern outright , and chose to broker a deal with Ardern over her opponent .
Before this year ’s election , Peters faces the prospect of distinguishing his party from Ardern ’s ; under New Zealand ’s Mixed Member Proportional voting system , New Zealand First must receive 5 % of the overall vote , or win an electorate seat , to be represented in parliament .
The party is currently polling below the 5 % threshold , with the election scheduled for 19 September .

Cop26 climate talks in Glasgow likely to be delayed again .
2020-05-26 19:31:51 +00:00 .
Vital international climate talks due to be hosted by the UK are expected to be delayed until late next year because of the coronavirus crisis , it has emerged , dashing hopes they could be reconvened sooner .
The UN talks , known as Cop26 , were to be held in Glasgow this November , but in early April they were postponed as governments around the world grappled with lockdown .
At that time governments thought the summit could be reconvened within the first three months of 2021 .
However , at a follow - up UN meeting on 28 May the UK will try to persuade other countries and the UN that a much longer delay is necessary and talks should be moved to the first half of November 2021 , the Guardian has learned .
That leaves a hiatus of a whole year , although interim meetings might be staged to try to regain some momentum for the crunch negotiations .
Governments are supposed to prepare detailed plans before Cop26 on how to cut their greenhouse gas emissions in line with the Paris agreement , which most have so far failed to do .
Current pledges on emissions cuts , made in 2015 , would take the world to an estimated 3C of heating above pre - industrial levels , far beyond the 2C limit set in the landmark Paris accord .
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , the world ’s leading body on climate science , has warned that the world must change course drastically by 2030 , making this year ’s deadline for revised national plans even more urgent .
Experts told the Guardian they were concerned that a long gap before Cop26 would make it harder to gain the momentum needed to force reluctant countries to come up with new national plans on emissions cuts .
A short delay to next spring was seen as a boon by some , as the US presidential election takes place this November .
A spring conference would either have welcomed a new administration , or have given time for other countries to react to the reelection of Donald Trump , who is withdrawing the US from the Paris agreement .
But the UK government is understood to believe that travel restrictions would impede any large - scale conference earlier in the year .
With 196 nations expected to take part in Cop26 , even if lockdowns were eased in many countries it is likely restrictions would still be in place in some parts of the world well into next year .
Holding a virtual conference has been considered , but many civil society groups are wary , as they say activists in and around the talks play a vital role in pressing ministers to go further .
Another concern is that separate UN environmental talks , on biodiversity , are being rescheduled to the first half of next year , and it is thought better to retain the original sequence , with the biodiversity conference preceding the Cop26 climate talks .
Carbon dioxide emissions have fallen sharply as a result of lockdowns , with a 17 % drop in daily emissions levels recorded by early April , according to recent research .
Many experts are calling for a “ green recovery ” from the Covid-19 crisis , with an Oxford study showing that backing green projects would create jobs and provide a greater return on investment than pouring public money into business as usual .
If Cop26 is delayed by a full year , those recovery plans – green or not – will be well under way before global governments are next required to account publicly for their stewardship of the climate .
Commenting on the recovery plans , Chris Venables , the head of politics at the Green Alliance thinktank , said : “ The really important thing now is to make sure the recovery from the coronavirus crisis is linked to climate change ambition and Cop26 .
It has to be a green recovery . ”

Mary Tiffen obituary .
2020-05-26 13:33:17 +00:00 .
My colleague Mary Tiffen , the distinguished economic historian , who has died aged 88 from Covid-19 , will best be remembered for the groundbreaking African drylands research she conducted from the 1970s to 2000 , successfully demonstrating how much farmers ’ own skills and capacity to innovate had been undervalued .
Her 1976 monograph on Northern Nigeria , The Enterprising Peasant , the work she led on Kenya in 1994 ( More People Less Erosion ) and the final comparative studies she undertook around 2000 comparing dryland areas of Kenya , Senegal , Nigeria and Niger , all focused on the ingenuity of the farmers who made a living from these difficult environments .
Her research challenged , and continues to challenge , careless assumptions about the causes of desertification and appropriate policy responses .
Mary ’s arguments were always derived from the analysis of many decades ’ worth of data .
She was thus able to show how population growth turned labour constraints into land constraints , and gradually made land investment and conservation more economic .
Particularly in the Kenya study , photographs from the 30s to 1990 vividly show the same locations turning from arid degraded landscapes into fertile , tree - covered , terraced farms , as that balance changed .
Her work also demonstrated how vital to wealth generation improved road networks and market access have been .
These open the door not only to greater income , but also to education and to better intelligence about new crops and techniques .
The capital investment increasingly needed for farming innovation would earlier be derived from cattle sales , and later from the urban employment of some household members .
Mary ’s work made an impeccable policy case for the most successful government interventions often being those which simply remove barriers to trade , and which trust and support the capacities of local resource managers to respond .
Top - down schemes have usually failed .
The daughter of Gwendolen ( nee Carrall ) and Horace Steele - Perkins , Mary was born in Farnborough , Hampshire .
Her father was an RAF officer and worked during the second world war in Hong Kong in air raid precautions ( ARP ) .
After the war , Mary and her mother moved to India , then Mary finished her schooling in Devon , and took a history degree at Girton College , Cambridge , in 1952 .
After a period of teaching and NGO work , she met and married Brian Tiffen in 1960 .
He worked for the British Council and Mary began her research career as she accompanied him to Nigeria , Malawi , Iraq and elsewhere .
Her doctorate ( from the LSE in 1974 ) and first book were based on her northern Nigeria research .
In Iraq , Mary became interested in ancient irrigation systems , and this was the experience that led to her taking a post running the Irrigation Management Network at the Overseas Development Institute in London , where she worked from 1983 until 1994 .
In retirement she produced two self - published family histories , Friends of Sir Robert Hart ( 2012 ) and Testimony to Love ( 2017 ) , and had recently begun a memoir for her children about her own life .
Brian died in 2014 .
Mary is survived by their children , Martin and Jenny , grandchildren , Lucy , Hannah , Rachel , Finlay and Jake , and by her half - brother , Chris .

Two schools in Sydney's east closed after students test positive for Covid-19 .
2020-05-26 06:13:19 +00:00 .
Two schools located just two kilometres apart in Sydney ’s eastern suburbs have closed after a student at each tested positive for coronavirus .
The news comes one day after all students across the state returned to the classroom full - time .
Waverley college sent home the 1,100 students from its senior campus on Tuesday morning , after being notified by the parents of a year 7 boy that he had tested positive for the virus .
Parents were told to come and collect their children just before 10 am this morning .
The school organised private buses for those whose parents were unable to pick them up , deputy principal Patrick Brennan told reporters , and alerted staff and students who were in direct contact with the infected pupil .
Down the road , Moriah college evacuated its campus a few hours later after NSW Health notified the college that one of its students had also tested positive for Covid-19 .
While public schools across the state officially reopened yesterday , Moriah and Waverley , both independent colleges , resumed face - to - face teaching last week .
Moriah has confirmed that the infected student was at school last Thursday 21 May. Both schools are closed while campus cleaning and contact tracing takes place .
Waverley college and Moriah college are not the first schools in NSW forced to close .
Epping Boys high school , Normanhurst West public school , Warragamba public school , St Mary ’s senior high school and St Ignatius college , Riverview , have all had to shut their doors temporarily after students and staff tested positive for coronavirus .
Originally , NSW students were not supposed to return to the classroom full - time until late July .
But the premier , Gladys Berejiklian , brought the date forward last week due to declining transmission rates across the state .
Berejiklian said at the time that the “ health advice is very clear – a return to full - time face - to - face teaching is safe ” , but that it would be common to see schools close due to outbreaks .
The education minister , Sarah Mitchell , warned after Waverley college closed on Tuesday morning that school shutdowns are “ something that we are going to have to live with ” .
“ We are living through a pandemic and there will be occasions from time to time that we do have a positive case that effects a school community , ” Mitchell told reporters .
“ On any given day , one in five people in NSW are associated with a school community , whether they are a student , a parent or a teacher . ”
It is unclear whether other schools in Waverley will need to reevaluate face - to - face teaching in light of the nearby outbreaks .
St Clare ’s College told Guardian Australia it was not considering closing at the moment , unless one of their students , or a student ’s sibling at another school , tests positive for the virus .
The Guardian also put questions to St Catherine ’s School , Reddam House School and Sydney Catholic Schools , but did not receive a response before publication .

UK volunteering soars during coronavirus crisis .
2020-05-25 23:13:25 +00:00 .
Ten million UK adults have been volunteering in their community during the coronavirus crisis , and most say they will carry on after the lockdown ends , according to new research .
The study also found that Britons have been extending a financial helping hand to local businesses .
More than £ 1bn was spent on services and goods that people knew they would never be able to use during the pandemic , including payments to home cleaners and gardeners .
Since the crisis took hold , millions of Britons have been serving as an informal “ volunteering army ” , whether it is helping with grocery shopping for others , picking up prescriptions , ringing up people living alone , or helping out at a local food bank .
According to the research from insurer Legal & General and the Centre for Economics and Business Research , one in five UK adults ( 19 % ) has volunteered their time for community activities since the start of the lockdown on 23 March .
With each individual contributing , on average , about three hours of their time , the work this volunteer army is doing is estimated to have an equivalent economic value of more than £ 350 m a week .
The researchers said “ Britain ’s community spirit has doubled down in lockdown ” and that these volunteers were a key part of the “ national infrastructure ” during the crisis .
Nigel Wilson , Legal & General ’s chief executive , said : “ We have become a nation of volunteers during the Covid-19 crisis .
And – judging by the millions who plan to continue after the lockdown – it is a change that is here to stay . ”
Two - thirds of those who have volunteered ( 67 % ) have been doing grocery shopping for neighbours , friends and others , while a quarter ( 26 % ) have collected and delivered medicines or prescriptions .
Meanwhile , 16 % of those donating their time have volunteered to phone people who may be struggling with loneliness or other issues .
This is all on top of the help being provided via the NHS volunteer programme launched on 24 March .
The research found that millennials – typically defined as those born between the early 1980s and the late 1990s or the start of the 2000s – were the least likely age group to volunteer , but that when they did , they gave up the most time : an average of 3.5 hours a week on grocery shopping , and 4.4 hours if volunteering in other ways .
Meanwhile , across all those surveyed , more than three - quarters ( 78 % ) said they planned to continue helping those in need after the lockdown .
The researchers also found that many households had tried to help those who help them , and were continuing to pay cleaners , gardeners and other workers for services they knew they would never be able to use under lockdown .
An estimated £ 637 m was spent on unused goods and services between the start of the lockdown and the end of April – a figure that has now risen to more than £ 1bn .

Czech Republic lifts face mask rule as coronavirus restrictions ease .
2020-05-25 13:56:01 +00:00 .
The Czech Republic has lifted its trailblazing rule requiring face masks to be worn in public , a symbolic landmark in the country ’s relatively successful battle against Covid-19 .
The long - awaited lifting of the regulation – imposed in March shortly after a state of emergency was declared – coincided with the final phase of an easing of lockdown restrictions , in which pubs , restaurants , hotels and museums have been fully reopening their doors .
Czech officials have pressed ahead with a phased easing of restrictions amid a consistent decline in the number of confirmed cases .
The health minister , Adam Vojtěch , declared last week that “ the Covid-19 crisis is behind us ” .
Health ministry figures reported 8,932 confirmed cases as of 24 May , with nearly 400,000 tests performed .
There have been 315 deaths .
The Czech Republic was among the first countries in Europe to close its borders against the spread of coronavirus , on 12 March , ordering the closure of most businesses days later .
But the mask edict – in common with neighbouring Slovakia – quickly became the symbol of the Czech fight against the pandemic , prompting debate in other countries over whether they should follow suit .
The rule was imposed by prime minister Andrej Babiš ’ government after Prague city council initially introduced it for travelling on the capital ’s public transport network .
It was quickly embraced by the public despite the government coming under fire for failing to provide emergency facewear .
People were encouraged to make their own masks at home , while students at fashion schools worked to provide them on a voluntary basis .
The psychological effect was clear on Monday , as many people continued to wear masks outdoors despite the ending of the regulation .
Some said they did not know why they continued to wear them despite it no longer being required .
“ I was in some institutions this morning that do n’t allow people in without masks , but I have just become used to it , ” said Natasha Manakoski , a 35 - year - old architect walking through a square in Prague ’s fashionable Vinohrady neighbourhood wearing a black mask , in common with many other pedestrians .
“ Maybe I feel a little bit safer with the mask , although it feels better without it . ”
Masks are still mandatory on public transport and in indoor facilities where people can not guarantee standing a minimum of 2 metres apart .
Pub and restaurant - goers are also expected to keep wearing masks when not eating or drinking .
In reality , the rule has become inconsistently observed lately .
The limited reopening of bars and cafes to provide pavement service on 11 May created the anomalous situation of pedestrians wearing masks passing by busy table areas populated by drinkers not wearing them .
Parents accompanying their children to parks have increasingly neglected to cover their faces .
Monday ’s easing also meant the reopening of previously busy tourist attractions such as Prague Castle , which plans to admit visitors free of charge and without the standard security checks for a limited period , as officials seek to replace the disappearance of foreign tourists with more Czechs .
With plans for foreign holidays in disarray , the government has also said it would allow Czech citizens to visit neighbouring Austria and Slovakia from next month .
Officials have said Czechs should limit any foreign holiday plans to countries with similar epidemiological trends to the Czech Republic .

White shelled eggs are selling in Tesco for the first time in 40 years .
2020-05-24 23:13:08 +00:00 .
Unfashionable white eggs normally used in McDonald ’s breakfast McMuffins are making a surprise comeback on the shelves of Tesco – the first time the supermarket has sold them for more than 40 years .
Following a successful trial , the UK ’s largest retailer will sell the white shelled free - range eggs in order to meet unprecedented demand from shoppers , while supporting suppliers and avoiding waste .
Sales of fresh eggs have soared in the UK since the outbreak of coronavirus – and sold out during early stockpiling – as consumers stocked up with the high - protein , versatile food and staple breakfast and brunch ingredient .
With more people cooking and eating at home alongside a home - baking boom since the pandemic started , Tesco has seen demand for eggs rocket by 30 % year on year .
Jean - Paul Michalski , the director of Noble Foods , which is supplying Tesco with the eggs , said : “ Generally our white eggs are sold to a very large global restaurant chain which unfortunately had to close its doors because of the pandemic .
They are also used within egg processing where the egg is broken into a liquid to be used for food manufacturers , hotel or restaurants .
“ None of our standard retail customers stock white eggs
so we are really grateful to Tesco for stepping in as the white eggs would have gone to waste . ”
The eggs will cost the same as the brown free - range equivalent , starting from 89p for a box of six medium eggs .
Until the early 1970s white eggs – which are generally medium - sized – were popular in the UK but they had fallen out of favour by the end of the decade when shoppers began switching to the brown variety , which were larger and seen as healthier .
Since the 1980s , the UK industry has produced almost 100 % brown shelled eggs for high street retailers .
As a result there are now very few white egg - laying flocks in the UK ; down to an estimated 250,000 - 300,000 of the 40 m egg - laying birds in the UK .
Tesco eggs buying manager Megan Kilby said : “ The initial trial during the lockdown has been a success and we will now be stocking white free range eggs for the first time in more than 40 years .
These eggs are used throughout the restaurant industry so shoppers can be assured of their quality .
“ The move could also have an agricultural benefit as white hens are more docile than brown ones and lay eggs for longer and more reliably . ”
The lockdown has led to serious disruption of the UK ’s food supply chain , with farmers , producers and wholesalers struggling to divert tens of thousands of tonnes of perishable food no longer required by restaurants , pubs , hotels and schools .
Britons spent £ 88 m on fresh eggs as they stockpiled staple foods in the four weeks preceding the UK ’s initial lockdown , according to data from the British Egg Industry Council .
Over the four weeks leading to the week ending 22 March , an estimated 621 m eggs were sold – nearly 20 % more than the same time last year when 518 m eggs worth £ 74 m were sold .
Before the outbreak of the coronavirus , supermarkets were already reporting healthy sales thanks to the popularity of vegetarian and flexitarian diets .
But initial panic buying led to some supermarkets to impose shopper restrictions on purchases of eggs .
Retailer John Lewis said egg cups were selling out as consumers , with time for a sit - down breakfast , took to boiling eggs again .

Anger across Britain at Dominic Cummings's 260-mile lockdown trek .
2020-05-24 16:43:48 +00:00 .
After the Guardian and Daily Mirror revealed Dominic Cummings ’ 260 - mile journey from London to Durham as his wife and then he came down with coronavirus symptoms , frontline workers and bereaved relatives expressed their anger and frustration .
“ I became sick with # COVID19 in March .
My wife was also sick .
We have 3 kids & stayed home to look after them .
Because that was the rule .
Back at work I dressed in full PPE to look after the sick and dying .
I did n’t do all of that so # DominicCummings could flout the rules . ”
– Dr Farbod Babolhavaeji “ My mother died of Covid-19 , alone in a care home in Sussex on 18 April 2020 .
I was unable to visit her during the last few weeks and days of her life because of the lockdown measures imposed by your government , advised by Dominic Cummings .
It now appears that Cummings not only broke the lockdown rules himself , he did so flagrantly .
His response today has been arrogance personified .
“ When I did , finally , make a 520 - mile round trip from York to Sussex and back to see my mother , it was to bury her body .
I completed the 520 - mile round trip in a single day because I thought staying at my sister ’s house in Sussex contravened the lockdown rules .
I am sure you can appreciate why I am appalled at Cummings ’s disregard for the lockdown rules he had a hand in making .
Please make my story known to No 10 ; there are thousands of similar stories across the land . ”
– John Tomsett , head teacher of Huntingdon School , York in a letter to his Conservative MP .
“ I ’m not with any organisation or campaign , just a member of the public .
I ’ve been furloughed and I was just sat at home angry and frustrated .
I think it ’s disgusting .
It ’s one rule for him and the rest of us .
It ’s disgraceful how the government is protecting him .
I ’ve been at home with my wife for two months .
But thinking of all the people who ’ve made big sacrifices and not seen their loved ones . ”
– Ben , 31 , marketing manager protesting outside Cummings ’s north London home on Sunday .
“ If Dominic Cummings is n’t gone by the end of today , @BorisJohnson is insulting every grieving relative
I have had to call to explain why they ca n’t visit their dying loved one in hospital .
Every distraught family member not at a funeral .
Every frontline carer risking their life . ”
– Rachel Clarke “ # DominicCummings walks outside my house while I keep the rules and do n’t go and see my dad in a care home in the town and he dies 5 days later .
It ’s a horror movie . ”
– Helen Goodman , former Labour MP for Bishop Auckland .
“ So my partner and I both had coronavirus symptoms at the same time .
We have two children .
We all stayed in the flat for 10 - 14 days and relied on neighbours to leave food by the front door .
Turns out we could have driven to Bristol and left the kids with my sister . ”
–
Julia Bellis

Did Dominic Cummings break the law on lockdown rules? .
2020-05-24 13:28:16 +00:00 .
On 23 March , the prime minister announced a nationwide lockdown to slow the spread of coronavirus .
“ I must give the British people a very simple instruction – you must stay at home , ” said Boris Johnson .
Dominic Cummings certainly ignored that diktat , along with government guidance not to travel anywhere else to self - isolate .
But did he break the law ?
On 26 March , regulations were introduced in England that made it an offence to leave home without a “ reasonable excuse ” and to gather in groups of more than two .
The Health Protection ( Coronavirus , Restrictions ) ( England ) Regulations 2020 gave police powers to forcibly return those who refused to comply with the lockdown to their homes and issue fines to dissenters .
We know Cummings went to Durham after the regulations came into force .
He was seen running away from Downing Street on 27 March and was definitely in Durham by 31 March , when officers from the local police force spoke to his father .
Downing Street has not contradicted a witness who told the Guardian they also saw Cummings in Barnard Castle , 30 miles from Durham , on 12 April .
Whether he contravened the regulations depends on the definition of “ reasonable excuse ” .
The regulations do not define the term but they do provide non - exhaustive lists of reasonable excuses to be outside , such as shopping for necessities , doing exercise and travelling to and from work .
Even when Boris Johnson announced a slight relaxation of lockdown in England on 11 May – when he said “ you can drive as far as you like to reach an outdoor space ” – that was specifically only for the purpose of exercise .
Asked by reporters on Saturday for her reading of “ reasonable excuse ” , the deputy chief medical officer , Jenny Harries , suggested “ extreme risk to life ” would fit the bill .
“ If you ’re symptomatic , you stay at home , take yourself out of society as quickly as you can and stay there , unless there ’s extreme risk to life , ” she said at the daily press conference .
Downing Street ’s statement says Cummings travelled 260 miles north “ owing to his wife being infected with suspected coronavirus and the high likelihood that he would himself become unwell .
It was essential … to ensure his young child could be properly cared for . ”
The regulations are clear that had Cummings been stopped by police en route to Durham , officers could have directed him to return to London and fined him .
The wording of the regulations says police only need to “ consider ” ( ie believe ) that someone had left home without a reasonable excuse in order to send them back .
The government had already issued non - legally - binding guidance that said people should not leave home to isolate elsewhere : “ Essential travel does not include visits to second homes , campsites , caravan parks or similar , whether for isolation purposes or holidays .
People must remain in their primary residence .
Not taking these steps puts additional pressure on communities and services that are already at risk . ”
Theoretically , police could also have sent Cummings back to London using another new law , the Coronavirus Act 2020 , which gave police further powers to remove a potentially infectious person for screening / assessment and also to detain them if they refuse to comply .
But whether the police can retrospectively fine someone considered to have broken the rules is unclear .

New York Stock Exchange traders hope to prove they are still a big noise .
2020-05-23 23:10:02 +00:00 .
Everyone knows what financial trading looks like , right ?
A large room of blokes ( mainly ) with paunches and worryingly high blood pressure who shout and wave against a backdrop of flashing electronic numbers .
In reality the vast majority of trades are done by computers away from the floor , but that scene remains the enduring image of stock markets – one made familiar by films such as Trading Places .
Which is why a line from that 1983 movie is being used to trail the partial return to open outcry trading on the New York Stock Exchange this week , after the physical floor ( but not the electronic market ) was closed in March as part of the coronavirus lockdown .
“ We ’re back , Mortimer , ” was how veteran floor trader Peter “ Einstein of Wall Street ”
Tuchman put it .
Tuchman , who is sometimes called the “ most photographed trader on Wall Street ” , is recovering from a nasty bout of the virus himself , so it is difficult to begrudge him his enthusiasm .
But is this week ’s return of open outcry trading at the NYSE – where safety concerns will only permit about 25 % of the normal numbers of brokers back – really such a big deal ?
In normal times there tend to be two views of the NYSE ’s physical trading floor , a feature many other bourses have long abandoned .
To its supporters , it is an important and more sophisticated adjunct to the vast majority of market trades , which are conducted by machines .
If an investor wants to buy a stock at $ 10 , the computer will quickly find a seller and make that trade .
But a human on the exchange floor would talk to other traders and might discover lots of potential sellers milling around , and use their judgment to decide whether it is worth waiting to see if the price falls .
“ It ’s the difference between [ takeaway ] delivery and going to a restaurant , where you can look at the menu and talk to the waiter about the specials , ” floor trader Steve Grasso told the Washington Post last month .
“ You get your food either way .
But you get an inferior experience if you do n’t go to the restaurant . ”
Grasso is a bit of a Wall Street television celebrity , which brings us to the opposing view of the physical trading floor : that it is a shameless marketing ploy , useful only as a backdrop for the network ’s financial news bulletins .
The viewers expect a trading floor , damn it , so we ’ll give them a trading floor .
This expectation can also get turned up a notch during crises , when Wall Street suddenly morphs into a symbol of the American way of life .
After the 11 September 2001 attacks , the exchanges closed down completely , but the markets swiftly reopened ( before , predictably , slumping ) and then New York mayor Rudy Giuliani memorably described Wall Street as a “ monument to our liberty” .
It was tricky to argue with Giuliani , and now that he ’s President Donald Trump ’s lawyer , one wonders if he will be back this week to mark the rebirth of open outcry .
If he does make a trip to the trading floor , the former mayor will need ( depending on where he gets his medical advice ) a pen for signing the inevitable document indemnifying the NYSE against potential lawsuits , a hydroxychloroquine bagel and a hip flask of bleach .

UK firms to be asked to pay part of furloughed staff's wages from August .
2020-05-23 13:55:14 +00:00 .
Businesses will have to pay at least a fifth of the wages of furloughed employees from August , it has been reported .
The chancellor , Rishi Sunak , is expected to announce next week that employers will have to begin contributing as the lockdown is eased further , according to the Times .
Employers will be permitted to take furloughed workers back part - time , and all employers using the coronavirus job retention scheme will be required to make the payments , even if they remain closed , according to the paper .
The Treasury said it was “ not steering away ” from the story , which is understood to have been briefed by officials , and it did not deny its accuracy .
A Treasury source told the Times : “ We ’ve got two full months of support left and afterwards the government will help to pay people ’s wages , but it ’s fair to everyone that businesses contribute as they get back to work . ”
Sunak has said the furlough scheme will be in place until at least October .
Companies are to be asked to start sharing the cost from the start of August , which could in effect force many employers to assess whether certain jobs remain viable .
The Financial Times quoted a business leader this month as saying : “ If the furlough scheme is paying for jobs that do n’t really exist , it ’s better to release people into the job market to start looking for other work . ”
The Treasury will reportedly direct employers to cover between 20 % and 30 % of an employee ’s wage , and firms will also pay their national insurance contributions , which to about 5 % of wages .
The furlough scheme pays 80 % of a worker ’s salary up to £ 2,500 a month , and is supporting about 7.5 m jobs , representing about a third of the private - sector workforce .
The Office for Budget Responsibility has said the scheme could cost up to £ 80bn .
The Treasury was criticised this month after an anonymous official briefed that the nation was becoming “ addicted ” to the programme .
The scheme is set to be closed to new applicants before the changes , to reduce the risk of fraud .
As of 12 May , HMRC had received 795 reports of potential concerns from the public suspecting employers could be abusing the scheme .
Although these have not yet been corroborated , HMRC said it would pursue criminal action in serious cases .
“ It could be that you ’re not being paid what you ’re entitled to , they might be asking you to work while you ’re on furlough , or they may have claimed for times when you were working , ” an HMRC spokesperson said .
“ We ’re not trying to catch people out .
If it turns out to be a genuine mistake then we ’ll help put it right , and if it ’s more serious then we ’ll step in . ”
Data released on Friday shows that retail sales dropped a record 18.1 % in April as hundreds of thousands of businesses were forced to shut up shop to help tackle coronavirus .

Biden draws criticism for saying voters who back Trump 'ain't black' .
2020-05-22 16:39:44 +00:00 .
Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden triggered a fresh controversy on Friday morning when he suggested that if American voters supported Donald Trump “ then you ai n’t black ” .
The former vice - president did an interview with Charlamagne tha God , a co - host of the radio show The Breakfast Club .
Charlamagne had pressed Biden on a number of issues , including the legalization of marijuana and his choice of running mate .
After a campaign aide interjected to say Biden had to wrap it up , Charlamagne said , “ Listen , you ’ve got to come see us when you come to New York , VP Biden .
It ’s a long way until November .
We ’ve got more questions . ”
“ You ’ve got more questions ? ”
Biden replied .
“ Well I tell you what , if you have a problem figuring out whether you ’re for me or Trump , then you ai n’t black . ”
“ It do n’t have nothing to do with Trump , ” Charlamagne protested .
“ It has to do with the fact – I want something for my community . ”
“ Take a look at my record , man ! ”
Biden said , before claiming his decades - long record as a senator and vice - president was “ second to none ” .
Biden ’s comments immediately attracted a lot of criticism on social media and the Trump campaign and other leading figures jumped on the gaffe .
Republican senator Tim Scott , who is black , noted the number of African Americans who voted for Trump in 2016 and said Democrats were taking the black community for granted .
Trump campaign senior adviser Mercedes Schlapp also weighed in , and the campaign immediately began fundraising from the incident .
Schlapp compared the moment to Hillary Clinton describing some of her Republican rival ’s supporters as a “ basket of deplorables ” in 2016 .
Black Voices for Trump , an advisory board to the president ’s reelection campaign , released a statement condemning Joe Biden ’s comments this morning .
“ Biden has a history of racial condescension and today he once again proved what a growing number of Black Americans and I have always known : Joe Biden does not deserve our votes , ” said senior campaign adviser Katrina Pierson .
Biden has previously been criticized for some of his comments on race , such as when he reminisced about the former “ civility ” of the Senate by recalling his work with two senators who opposed racial integration .
Some liberal voices also took to social media to express their anger .
Biden has been campaigning from his basement during the coronavirus pandemic .

Mory Kanté: Guinean musician dies aged 70 from chronic health problems .
2020-05-22 15:30:37 +00:00 .
The Guinean musician Mory Kanté has died aged 70 .
His son Balla Kanté told the AFP news agency that his death was the result of untreated chronic health problems .
“ He suffered from chronic illnesses and often traveled to France for treatment , but that was no longer possible with the coronavirus , ” said Balla .
“ We saw his condition deteriorate rapidly , but I was still surprised because he ’d been through much worse times before . ”
Kanté died in hospital in the capital , Conakry .
Kanté found international success in 1987 with the song
Yé Ké Yé Ké .
It was the first African single to sell more than 1 m copies , reaching No 1 across several European countries and become a key track in Britain ’s late 80s club revolution – in 2018 , DJ Paul Oakenfold included the Afro Acid Mix of the track on an acid house compilation .
Yé Ké Yé Ké ’s parent album , Akwaba Beach , became the bestselling African record of all time and won the 1988 Victoires de la Musique prize for best Francophone album .
In a 2009 interview , he credited the song ’s enduring quality to his enthusiastic spirit .
“ Whether you play kora , balafon or any other instrument , you have to create something that people will not soon forget .
As long as your work is good , we do n’t forget it . ”
Senegalese musician Youssou N’Dour paid tribute , calling Kanté “ a baobab of African culture ” .
The president of Guinea , Alpha Condé , said that African culture was in mourning and praised Kanté ’s “ exceptional ” career .
The French producer Dimitri from Paris described him as a “ great music master ” .
Of Malian and Guinean descent , Kanté was born in the village of Albadaria on 29 March 1950 .
His parents were El Hadj Djeli Fodé Kanté and singer Fatouma Kamissoko , from one of Guinea ’s best - known families of musicians .
Age seven , he was sent from Guinea to Bamako , Mali , to learn to play the kora , the instrument that would later make him famous .
He also played balafon .
In 1971 , age 21 , he joined the Rail Band , and later replaced Salif Keïta as the singer .
Of his time in the band , he said : “ We were young and careless about not thinking about money .
Only perfection , perseverance and success counted . ”
In the 1980s , Kanté moved to Paris .
His popularity in France saw him nicknamed “ the electronic griot ” .
He cycled through different musical styles over the subsequent decades .
In the 2000s , he embraced more acoustic music , often in an orchestral setting .
For his 2012 album La Guinéenne , he embraced the golden age of west African music : lyrics in the Guinean Mandinka language accompanied by zouk , funk and reggae .
Later in his career , Kanté expressed his pride that he was able to construct an entertainment complex in the village of Nongo , near Conakry , featuring a 1,500 - seat auditorium , two sophisticated recording studios and leisure facilities .
He also gave guest lectures at universities around the world , expanding on his interest in the industrialisation of culture .
As a solo artist , he released 13 studio albums .
The last , N’Diarabi , was released in 2017 .
In 2014 , he recorded Africa Stop Ebola alongside artists including Amadou & Mariam , Salif Keïta and Oumou Sangaré .
It sold 250,000 copies , raising money for Médicins Sans Frontières .
Speaking to the Guardian in 2004 , he said he would like to be remembered “ as a man of culture , as a citizen of the world who delivers his messages in music , and as a tireless traveller looking to meet and know the people of this world ” .

UK government borrowing hits record high in April and retail sales slump - business live .
2020-05-22 06:46:22 +00:00 .
2.15am EDT 02:15 Introduction : Government borrowing hits £ 62bn in April Good morning , and welcome to our rolling coverage of the world economy , the financial markets , the eurozone and business .
We start with some breaking news -- UK government borrowing hit its highest level on record last month amid the Covid-19 pandemic , as retail sales across the country plunged at a record pace .
The Office for National Statistics has just reported that public borrowing in April is estimated to have surged to £ 62.1bn .
That ’s £ 51.1bn more than in April 2019 , and the highest borrowing in any month since records began in January 1993 .
UK public finances to April 2020 Photograph : Office for National Statistics
Indeed , it ’s almost as much as the UK borrowed in the whole of the last financial year : This is an early sign of the massive cost of the government ’s attempts to limit the damage of the Covid-19 crisis , including its jobs guarantee scheme .
But the ONS also cautions that “ the effects of COVID-19 are not fully captured in this release ” .
The ONS has also reported that retail sales across the UK slumped at an unprecedented rate in April .
Sales fell by over 18 % compared with March , due to the widespread shutdown of non - essential shop , taking turnover down to its lowest level since 2005 .
Photograph : Office for National Statistics The ONS explains : The volume of retail sales in April 2020 fell by a record 18.1 % , following the strong monthly fall of 5.2 % in March 2020 .
All sectors saw a monthly decline in volume sales except for a record increase in sales for non - store retailing at 18.0 % and a continued increase in sales for alcohol stores at 2.3 % .
The volume of clothing sales in April 2020 plummeted by 50.2 % when compared with March 2020 , which had already fallen by 34.9 % on the previous month .
This comes as fears over the UK hospitality industry grow , with many pubs , bars and restaurants warning they will close some outlets permanently .
Stock markets are also under pressure , after China abandoned its long - held practice of setting a GDP target - presumably because growth has been so badly hit by the pandemic .
More details and reaction to follow !
The agenda 7 am BST : UK public sector net borrowing for April 7 am BST : UK retail sales for April Updated at 2.28am EDT

Lawn Tennis Association announces profit thanks to Wimbledon success .
2020-05-20 17:07:09 +00:00 .
For the first time in Wimbledon history , the championships ’ annual payments to the Lawn Tennis Association has scaled £ 50 m as the LTA announced a strong financial standing amid the uncertainty brought by the coronavirus crisis .
The LTA ’s financial statements for 2019 mark a significant turnaround after three years of planned losses , with 2018 ’s losses of £ 6.3 m making way for an operating profit of £ 8.7 m and revenue of £ 77 m. Much of this turnaround is a reflection of the greater injection of money from Wimbledon , which posted a record surplus of £ 50.8 m. Each year , the championships provided the LTA with 90 % of its distributable surplus , plus additional funding to support grasscourt tournaments and officiating fees .
Its total payments of £ 52.072 m amounts to 60 % of the LTA ’s total finances .
Wimbledon had been running on a reduced surplus over the past number of years because of the building of the roof over No 1 Court , which was completed last year .
Wimbledon has also invested more heavily in the grasscourt season to offer its warm - up events more security regardless of Wimbledon ’s annual surplus .
As many sporting governing bodies struggle , the LTA ’s handsome finances means it has a strong position to support British tennis , underlined by the organisation now having a total equity of £ 175.8 m and abundant cash reserves of 14.9 m.
However , the LTA opted to utilise the government ’s furlough scheme on around 50 % of its staff in April , which coincided with its announcement of its support fund .
Between 50 to 55 employees are said to be furloughed , with the LTA topping up the remaining 20 % of salaries .
Executive staff have also reduced their pay by 20 % .
The financial impact of Wimbledon ’s cancellation was tempered by its pandemic insurance , and the financial outlook for both Wimbledon and the LTA will be decided by the conclusion of the insurance claims process , with Wimbledon ’s surplus expected to be lower in 2020 .
In addition , despite three fewer employees , the LTA also announced a significant £ 2.7 m rise in salary expenditure .
“ Whilst the LTA delivered a profit for 2019 , the current outlook for 2020 and beyond will be very different due to the financial impact of the current pandemic , ” read a statement from the governing body .
“ Our responsibility is to protect the long term growth and future of the sport in Britain and our reserves in isolation , can only support the short - term needs of the sport at this time .
The Government furlough scheme is an essential measure to assist organisations , including the LTA , manage such cash - flow constraints and to safeguard jobs in the future . ”
The LTA will be hosting the British National Championships for men ’s , women ’s juniors and wheelchair events later this year as the international tours await their resumption , not before 31 July .

Premier League clubs fear impact after learning of extra broadcast rebates .
2020-05-20 12:32:43 +00:00 .
Premier League clubs fear there will be huge financial ramifications in the likely event that broadcasters demand heavy refunds even if the season is completed .
Top - flight clubs were told last week they will have to give between £ 300 m and £ 350 m back to TV companies even if the 92 games still to be played take place and their anger deepened after discovering broadcasters are due an extra £ 36 m in rebates for every week the 2019 - 20 season extends beyond 16 July .
It is understood some clubs are concerned those demands could lead to severe cost - cutting and job losses .
Harsh financial realities caused by the coronavirus pandemic are at the heart of the league ’s push to return to action , with a bill of £ 762 m due to Sky , BT Sport and international broadcasters if the season is cancelled .
Although clubs took the first steps towards resuming the season after beginning small group training on Tuesday , the expectation is that games are unlikely to be played before 19 June and that 26 June may be a more realistic start date .
Managers and players are opposed to a proposed return of 12 June because of fitness concerns after a long hiatus .
With games expected to be spread over six or seven weeks , the season will likely run for at least three weeks after 16 July .
The later is starts , the greater the cost could be to the clubs .
As first reported by the Daily Telegraph , there is a sliding scale of payments due depending on when the season finishes .
Full details of the rebate model will be presented to the 20 clubs when they hold their conference calls next Tuesday and Thursday .
Although the cost of not playing would be even worse , clubs used a meeting this week to voice displeasure about broadcasters seeking money even if the season finishes .
A penalty of at least £ 300 m applies because they would not be able to fulfil contractual obligations around the timing and delivery of a product played in empty stadiums , and the prospect of additional rebates has caused further disquiet among senior executives .
One executive warned that a demand for refunds would cause financial problems and could force some clubs into redundancies .
Another club has told the Guardian they are braced for a 25 % loss of turnover in one three - month period .
Clubs are unhappy with the TV companies given that they are prepared to grant broadcasters greater access and more live games when the season resumes .
There is a feeling that broadcasters want to pay less despite being able to show more football .
Yet with the terms of the contract favouring the broadcasters , the clubs will find it hard to negotiate a new agreement .

Oscars 2021 likely to be postponed – report .
2020-05-20 09:54:30 +00:00 .
The 2021 Oscar ceremony is likely to be delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic , according to a report in the film industry magazine Variety .
Citing unnamed industry sources , Variety said the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is considering the situation and the Oscars , currently due to take place on 28 February 2021 , will probably be postponed .
However , no formal discussions are thought to have yet taken place .
The rapid shutdown of film production and cinemas has thrown the Oscars schedule into chaos , with many films being released only online .
In April , the Academy announced temporary changes in Oscar eligibility , allowing films that missed out on a cinema release to be considered for awards .
Previously , films had to be screened in cinemas for a week before 31 December to be eligible .
A postponement may mean the deadline for eligibility would also change .
Academy president David Rubin told Variety : “ It ’s impossible to know what the landscape will be .
We know we want to celebrate film
but we do not know exactly what form it will take . ”
Despite declining viewer figures and unsuccessful attempts to reformat the show to arrest the slide , the Academy earns large sums from the Oscars telecast , with reports suggesting ABC paid $ 80 m in 2017 for the broadcast rights .

Global report: Brazil's deadliest day as Trump calls US cases a 'badge of honour' .
2020-05-20 05:17:30 +00:00 .
Brazil has seen its most deadly day since the coronavirus outbreak began , prompting Donald Trump to consider a ban on travel to the US from Brazil as he declared the huge number of US cases of coronavirus was “ a badge of honour ” . .
After a cabinet meeting on Tuesday at the White House , Trump said : “ I do n’t want people coming over here and infecting our people .
I do n’t want people over there sick either , ” in relation to Brazil .
When asked if about the possibility of a travel ban , the president said he was considering it and went on to say he saw the large number of US cases as a “ badge of honour ” .
“ You know when you say that we lead in cases , that ’s because we have more testing than anybody else , ” he said .
“ It ’s a great tribute to the testing and all of the work that a lot of professionals have done . ”
The US president has previously claimed “ incredible ” victories in testing despite criticism over his administration ’s repeated failures .
The US has by far the highest number of cases in the world , at more than 1.5 million with nearly 92,000 deaths , followed by Russia and then Brazil , according to the Johns Hopkins university tracker .
The death toll in Brazil reached a total of 17,971 on Tuesday , after a record 1,179 people died in one day .
The highest daily toll before Tuesday had been 881 deaths , on 12 May.
The grim new toll came amid warnings that several major cities in Latin America were in danger of being overwhelmed by the virus .
More than 85 % of intensive care beds are full in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo .
Brazil overtook Britain on Monday to become the country with the third - highest number of confirmed infections .
It has reported a total of 271,628 confirmed cases after a record rise of 17,408 on Tuesday .
President Jair Bolsonaro , an ideological ally of Trump , has been criticised for his handling of the outbreak , which has included opposition to restrictions on movement he sees as too damaging to the economy .
Pan American Health Organization officials said in a virtual briefing they were concerned about the virus ’s spread in the tri - border area of the Amazon between Colombia , Peru and Brazil .
They urged special measures to protect vulnerable populations among the indigenous , poor and racial minorities .
The World Bank on Tuesday warned that 60 million people could fall into extreme poverty as a result of the pandemic and said it anticipated a 5 % contraction in the world economy this year , with severe effects on the poorest countries .
The warning came as concerns about the impact of the virus in Latin America grew .
In some cities , doctors said patients were dying because of a lack of ventilators or because they could n’t get to a hospital fast enough .
More than 90 % of intensive care beds were full last week in Chile ’s capital , Santiago , whose main cemetery dug 1,000 emergency graves to prepare for a wave of deaths .
In Lima , Peru , patients took up 80 % of intensive care beds as of Friday .
Peru has the world ’s 12th - highest number of confirmed cases , with more than 90,000 .
“ We ’re in bad shape , ” said Pilar Mazzetti , head of the Peruvian government ’s Covid-19 taskforce .
“ This is war . ”
With intensive care units swamped , officials plan to move patients from capitals such as Lima and Santiago to hospitals in smaller cities that are less busy , running the risk of spreading the disease further .

Tim Baynes obituary .
2020-05-19 17:00:43 +00:00 .
My father , Tim Baynes , who has died aged 91 from Covid-19 , was a retired vicar , furniture - maker , artist and campaigner for social justice .
Born in Oxford , the eldest of three children of Colin and Mary ( nee Phelps ) , he had a solitary childhood , and was sent to a residential nursery at nine months while his parents worked in Nigeria , his father being in the colonial education service .
After their return to Britain , Colin became headteacher of New College school , Oxford , where Mary helped him with his work .
Tim boarded at prep school from the age of seven and then went to Marlborough college , Wiltshire .
After national service , he studied art and furniture design , and his first job was at the Newcastle College of Art and Design .
Tim remembered these days as exciting but was troubled to find that some people thought him “ cold ” – his early life experiences showing through .
A friend encouraged him to talk to a priest , and that experience of “ confession and blessing ” changed his life , leading him to leave furniture - making and go to Ely Theological College , Cambridgeshire .
His spells as a curate in the 1960s , in Bishop ’s Stortford , Hertfordshire and Mansfield Woodhouse , Nottinghamshire , gave him the view that the church needed to understand better the lives of working people , and following a visit to a working men ’s club in Manchester and a trip down a coal mine , he changed course and became an industrial chaplain .
He moved to Manchester in 1967 to join the Greater Manchester Industrial Mission team , allocated to the city ’s transport sector ; until 1972 he also held parish responsibilities as the vicar of the inner - city church of St John ’s , Miles Platting .
For the rest of his life , Tim worked to bring about better support for workers , including bringing together unions , management and staff in the transport industry to improve conditions , and campaigning for a minimum wage in the 1980s , long before anyone believed it could work .
On retiring to Kendal in 1994 , he continued to campaign for equality and social justice .
He will be missed by Global Justice Now , the World Development Movement , Forward in Europe , Kendal Ecumenical Group , South Lakes Extinction Rebellion , Kendal Quaker Meeting and many more .
He also carried on working with his hands .
My dining - room is full of the evidence of his wonderful furniture - making skills , including a cabinet for glasses , a music stand and some napkin rings , each carved in the shape of a Lakeland fell .
Thoughtful , compassionate , wise , curious : these are words that came up time and again from those who knew my father .
My brother Nick
and I will also treasure our memories of him as a loving father and grandfather who overcame the major separations in his early life , reading Winnie the Pooh to us at bed time .
He is survived by his wife , Monica ( nee Johnson ) , a pyschiatric social worker whom he met on a skiing holiday and married in 1967 , by Nick and me , and his grandchildren , Seb , Joss and Lucia .

Boparan group set to buy Carluccio’s restaurants .
2020-05-18 16:50:37 +00:00 .
Ranjit Singh Boparan , the owner of the Giraffe restaurant business and the founder of 2 Sisters Food Group , is poised to buy nearly half of the Carluccio ’s Italian dining chain out of administration , in a deal that will save about 900 jobs .
Boparan Restaurants , which owns the Giraffe , Fishworks and Ed ’s Easy Diner chains and the UK franchise for the US fast food chain Slim Chickens , is expected to confirm a deal to take on about 30 Carluccio ’s outlets as early as Tuesday .
About 43 further outlets of the ailing chain , which called in administrators from FRP in March , will be permanently shut with the loss of about 1,000 jobs , according to Sky News .
All the Carluccio ’s outlets are currently closed and its staff on furlough under the government ’s coronavirus lockdown rules .
Boparan has been labelled the UK ’s “ chicken king ” owing to his role as the co - owner of 2 Sisters Food Group , which supplies about a third of the chicken on UK supermarket shelves .
The company was the subject of parliamentary and food watchdog inquiries in 2017 following a Guardian and ITV News undercover investigation into food standards at a 2 Sisters plant .
The billionaire ’s food group , which recently brought in the turnaround expert and former Co - op boss Richard Pennycook as chairman , also includes Fox ’s Biscuits .
Boparan ’s interests also include the turkey producer Bernard Matthews and the upmarket Cinnamon Club restaurant in London , as well as the Boparan Restaurants group , which operates 140 outlets across six chains after closing at least 20 Giraffe outlets in 2019 .
It previously owned the Harry Ramsden ’s fish and chips empire , which it sold off last year .
Boparan is extending his empire as restaurants and pubs have come under increasing pressure during the coronavirus crisis .
UK operators have been closed since the end of March and will not be allowed to open to diners until at least 4 July , when the third step in the government ’s lockdown easing plan is due to take place , if progress in tackling the virus allows .
Even then , businesses are expected to have to operate with strict physical distancing rules , which are likely to cut into profits heavily .
Carluccio ’s was founded by the late chef Antonio Carluccio in 1999 and is currently owned by Landmark Group , a Dubai - based retail and hospitality conglomerate .
It called in administrators following a difficult period for casual dining chains after a private - equity fuelled over - expansion ramped up competition before the industry was hit by rising costs and slowing consumer confidence .
In 2018 , Carluccio ’s landlords backed a restructuring plan in the form of a company voluntary arrangement ( CVA ) , an insolvency procedure which allowed it to close about 30 of its restaurants .
The latest Carluccio ’s deal comes as Casual Dining Group ( CDG ) , the owner of Bella Italia , Café Rouge and Las Iguanas , which employs about 6,000 people , is also set for a major restructure .
The group , which runs about 250 restaurants , is expected to close outlets and put some parts of the business into administration after hiring the advisory firm AlixPartners to help consider options .
The beer , chips and mussels chain Belgo and the group ’s smaller chains Huxleys and Oriel are also at risk as part of the restructure .
The group sold off its La Tasca tapas brand this year .
A spokesperson for CDG said : “ As is widely acknowledged , this is an unprecedented situation for our industry and , like many other companies across the UK , the directors of Casual Dining Group are working closely with our advisers as we consider our next steps . ”

Monica Lewinsky among thousands to share 'last normal photo' .
2020-05-18 13:23:50 +00:00 .
Robyn Vinter knew something was happening when she saw a reply from Monica Lewinsky .
Vinter , a Leeds - based journalist , had sent a Saturday morning tweet which contained a simple request : “ I would like to see the last normal pic on your phone . ”
Within hours she had thousands of replies , including one from the woman best known for her part in a political scandal involving former US president Bill Clinton .
“ I spotted Jon Ronson had replied , and a couple more fairly high - profile people
and then I noticed Monica Lewinsky had , ” she said .
“ I thought : that ’s weird , how did she find my little tweet out of nowhere ?
Then I saw there were thousands of replies . ”
Vinter ’s simple tweet soon took on a life of its own , with almost 8,000 replies , revealing people ’s desire for a glimpse of life before lockdown .
The hashtag # lastnormalphoto began trending this weekend , with people from across the globe posting the last picture they took before the lockdown measures brought normal life to an end in March .
Pictures range from mundane snapshots of life , such as parents and children embarking on their final school run before classrooms were closed , to more joyous occasions including birthday parties with people hugging and chatting in groups - with barely 2 cm between them let alone 2 metres - before lockdown made physical distancing mandatory .
There ’s a shot from the Champions League tie between Liverpool and Atletico Madrid on 11 March , while several people sent images from meet - ups with elderly relatives .
Lewinsky sent a pictures of a bouquet of flowers she ’d received .
“ There are a lot of things that people would have chosen to do if they knew it was coming .
It ’s a frozen moment in time , I suppose , ” said Vinter .
Originally inspired by a BBC article , which asked for readers to send photographs , the hashtag is the latest photo callout to become popular on social media .
Others include Covid-19 specific themes ( # beforesocialdistancing , # sociallydistanced , # nosocialdistancinghere ) , the nostalgic ( # happiertimes , # untilnexttime , # misstheolddays ) and the exasperated ( # whenwillitend , # 2020cancelled ) .
Vinter , who works for the Yorkshire Post and founded the Overtake news site , says there is a question mark over whether or not all the pictures are actually the last picture the poster took before lockdown or a more contrived , social media - friendly option .
“ You could tell some of them were curated , ” she said .
“ It was n’t actually their last normal picture , it was one they ’d chosen because it was cool or they thought it made them look good .
So there ’s an element of narcissism involved . ”
Vinter puts the popularity of the hashtag down to a combination of that narcissism and nostalgia , as people scroll through their phones and pick out a snapshot of their former life .
“ It ’s nice for people to reflect on what they were doing especially because life changed so quickly , ” she says .
“ People have a feeling that something was going to happen , but no - one knew the necessary extreme it would go to . ”
Vinter ’s own entry to the hashtag was of her in a charity shop as she sized up a mirror that she was considering buying .
“ There was a weird 1970s mirror that I liked , so I ’d just taken a picture of it .
I wanted to have a think about it and imagine where it might go in my house and then go back for it , ” she says .
“ Obviously the charity shop is shut , but I ’m hoping it ’s still there and no one has got to it in the meantime . ”

Lockdown protests may have spread virus widely, cellphone data suggests .
2020-05-18 10:11:46 +00:00 .
Cellphone location data suggests that demonstrators at anti - lockdown protests – some of which have been connected with Covid-19 cases – are often traveling hundreds of miles to events , returning to all parts of their states , and even crossing into neighboring ones .
The data , provided to the Guardian by the progressive campaign group the Committee to Protect Medicare , raises the prospect that the protests will play a role in spreading the coronavirus epidemic to areas which have , so far , experienced relatively few infections .
The anonymized location data was captured from opt - in cellphone apps , and data scientists at the firm VoteMap used it to determine the movements of devices present at protests in late April and early May in five states : Michigan , Wisconsin , Illinois , Colorado and Florida .
They then created visualizations that tracked the movements of those devices up to 48 hours after the conclusion of protests .
The visualizations only show movements within states , due to the queries analysts made in creating them .
But the data scientist Jeremy Fair , executive - vice president of VoteMap , says that many of the devices that are seen to reach state borders are seen to continue across them in the underlying raw data .
One visualization shows that in Lansing , Michigan , after a 30 April protest in which armed protesters stormed the capitol building and state police were forced to physically block access to Governor Gretchen Whitmer , devices which had been present at the protest site can be seen returning to all parts of the state , from Detroit to remote towns in the state ’s north .
One device visible in the data traveled to and from Afton , which is over 180 miles from the capital .
Others reached , and some crossed , the Indiana border .
In the 48 hours following a 19 April “ Operation Gridlock ” protest in Denver , devices reached the borders of neighboring states including Wyoming , Nebraska , Oklahoma , New Mexico and Utah .
In Florida on 18 April , devices returned to all parts of the peninsula and up to the Georgia border .
In Wisconsin on 24 April , devices returned to smaller towns like Green Bay and Wausau , and the borders of Minnesota and Illinois .
Following the initial wave of anti - lockdown protests in April , epidemiologists warned that they could lead to a new surge in cases .
In North Carolina in late April , one of the leaders of the state ’s anti - lockdown protests tested positive for Covid-19 but said she would attend future rallies .
Dr Rob Davidson , executive director of the Committee to Protect Medicare , said that although “ it ’s hard to draw a straight line between devices , individuals at these protests , and cases ” , the data suggests that the protests may be epidemiologically significant events .
“ The behavior we ’re seeing at protests carries a high risk of infection .
We can see protesters are going from a highly concentrated event and then dispersing widely , ” he added .
Davidson , who has run for Congress as a Democrat , said that neither he nor his advocacy group were currently affiliated with the Democratic party .
The group is made up of more than 300 “ doctors who are concerned that the healthcare for their patients has become unaffordable ” .
In a series of widely shared videos and threads on Twitter , Davidson has criticized Trump , and attempted to dispel what he calls the “ distrust in public health ” which “ Donald Trump has fomented in his movement ” .

UK coronavirus live: thousands expected to return to work as train capacity increases .
2020-05-18 07:11:22 +00:00 .
3.05am EDT
03:05
As passenger numbers coming into the capital are expected to rise today with extra trains put on , two travellers were this morning on their way out of London at King ’s Cross .
An empty platform at Kings Cross railway station last week , on
16 May.
Photograph : Paul Marriott / REX / Shutterstock PC Jason Kelly , who was on his way to north Hertfordshire after a night shift , told PA : “ Up until a week ago , in the early morning there were only two people on the train .
“ When they changed the lockdown last week that went up to about 30 or 40 people . ”
He was n’t confident passengers would be able to stick to social distancing measures once numbers rise further , adding : “ For some people it ’s just like a normal day , people have got fed up with it ( coronavirus ) , they ’ve had enough . ”
Meanwhile , another police officer on his way home to Huntingdon in Cambridgeshire from King ’s Cross said through a lot of the lockdown he had been the only passenger on his train .
“ It ’s been marvellous , but now everything is going back to normal , ” he said .
He said he did not feel unsafe while travelling but did not think other commuters would try to keep two metres apart .
“ People ca n’t even ( stick to social distancing ) in the shops , ” he told PA .
“ That said , everyone has been very good on the Tube - everyone wears a mask and tries to sit far apart . ”
2.43am EDT 02:43 Good morning , folks .
It ’s Simon Murphy here kicking off the UK live blog today .
Extra trains are expected to take thousands more people back to work under Downing Street ’s plan to accelerate economic activity as lockdown restrictions designed to halt the spread of Covid-19 are eased .
But Kings Cross Station , one of the capital ’s busiest transport hubs , was almost deserted this morning – despite more trains running as part of the effort .
Regular announcements urged people to stick to social distancing measures , while the concourse was dotted with stickers reading “ Protect your NHS , stay 2 m apart ” , while regular announcements urged people to stick to social distancing measures .
It comes as a new survey suggests that more than a third of people say they could rethink the way they travel after the coronavirus pandemic .
Meanwhile , the culture secretary , Oliver Dowden , has said he is hoping Premier League football behind closed doors will be able to start by mid - June .
“ I had some very constructive discussions on Thursday with the FA , the EFL and the Premier League .
We ’re working hard with them to try and get it [ football ] back , I ’m aiming for , for mid - June but the number one test is public safety , ” he told Sky News this morning .
It comes after Germany ’s Bundesliga restarted last weekend .
The Guardian reported last week that a planned resumption of play on 12 June was looking less likely – and kick - off a week later is now a possibility after safety concerns were raised .
Yesterday , the government announced that if the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University proves successful in human trials then up to 30 million doses for the UK could be available by September .
In other news , MPs on Parliament ’s education select committee will discuss the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on schools and children ’s services at 9.30am today .
Updated at 2.46am EDT

Coronavirus US live: Trump adviser hits back at Obama for criticism of administration's Covid-19 response .
2020-05-17 15:26:05 +00:00 .
Peter Navarro , a top economic adviser to Donald Trump , has criticized Barack Obama after the former president said the country was suffering from a vacuum of leadership on the coronavirus crisis .
“ I ’m glad Mr Obama has a new job as Joe Biden ’s press secretary , ” Navarro said on ABC News ’ This Week .
Biden , Obama ’s former vice president , is running against Trump for president .
In a speech billed as an address to graduates on Saturday , Obama said “ more than anything , this pandemic has fully , finally torn back the curtain that so many of the folks in charge know what they ’re doing .
A lot of them are n’t even pretending to be in charge . ”
Navarro responded that Obama ’s administration “ was a kumbaya of incompetence ” .
He falsely accused the former president , as Trump frequently has , of allowing “ millions of manufacturing jobs ” to move to China .
In fact the main transfer of manufacturing jobs from the United States to China , such as it was , occurred in the early 2000s , before Obama was president .
Separately , in repetition of a reckless Trumpian line with no basis in evidence , Navarro accused China of deliberately “ seeding ” the world with the novel coronavirus , which Navarro calls “ China virus ” .
“ The Chinese behind the shield of the World Health Organization – for two months – hid the virus from the world and then sent hundreds of thousands of Chinese on aircraft to Milan , New York and around the world to seed that , ” Navarro said on ABC .
“ They could have kept it in Wuhan .
Instead it became a pandemic . ”
In fact Chinese scientists raised the alarm about Covid-19 in early January and published the genomic structure of Sars - CoV-2 online on 11 January so that scientists worldwide could begin fighting the virus .
But the Trump administration failed to stand up widespread testing for the virus and educate the public about the looming threat , with Trump dismissing the virus as a Democratic hoax .
An uptick in racist attacks against Asian Americans in the United States
has coincided with the Trump administration ’s messaging blaming China for Covid-19 .

Jimmy's Corner: America's greatest dive bar and a slice of old New York .
2020-05-15 17:29:53 +00:00 .
Jimmy Glenn wore many hats during more than seven decades in and around the fight game .
He had 16 bouts as an amateur , once going the distance in a loss to the future heavyweight champion Floyd Patterson .
He worked as a cutman and managed a number of fighters and trained a few more .
But Glenn , who died last week of complications from the coronavirus aged 89 , was perhaps best known for the iconic watering hole that bears his name on 44th Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues , a half - block east from the neon marquees and flashing Jumbotrons of Times Square .
For years Glenn owned and operated the decidedly old school Times Square Gym two blocks down on 42nd , where he taught young fighters and worked the pads for his friend Muhammad Ali when he was in town .
The gym and the building that housed it are long gone , razed in the early 1990s amid a redevelopment that transformed the neighborhood from gallery of drug dealers , pickpockets and sex shops to the Disneyfied tourist hub of present day .
But Jimmy ’s Corner has endured , one of the last vestiges of the area ’s gritty , pre - Giuliani incarnation , hardly wider than a walk - in closet and not so different today than when it opened shop in 1971 .
Three - dollar beers are trafficked seven days a week from 11 am till 4 am , the jukebox is loaded with Stax classics and the walls are a dense assemblage of posters , memorabilia and photographs culled from the proprietor ’s panoramic life in the hurt business .
A native of South Carolina , Glenn moved to New York during the 1940s and took up boxing at a Police Athletic League gym .
He began training amateur boxers at the Third Moravian Church in East Harlem before working the corner for such fistic greats as Patterson , Michael Spinks , Aaron Davis , Bobby Cassidy , Howard Davis Jr and Terrence Alli .
In his later years , Glenn steered the American heavyweight Jameel McLine to a pair of title shots .
Even as he approached 90 years old , Glenn was a nightly fixture at the bar , typically arriving around 10 pm and holding court with the regularly packed crowd of midtown workers , curious tourists and union stagehands from the nearby theater district .
It ’s been decades since New York was supplanted by Las Vegas as boxing ’s center of gravity , but when a card does come to town , it ’s not uncommon to find promoters , trainers and ring types along the same long bar where Sammy Davis Jr , Robert De Niro , Frank Sinatra and Michael Jordan once sat .
A sign hanging behind the bar amid the glow of Christmas lights informs customers of the only rule : Let ’s not discuss politics here .
“ I ’m not going to be a billionaire , ” Glenn once said .
“ It ’s too late now .
So I sell three - dollar beers . ”
Jimmy ’s Corner has been temporarily shuttered due to the pandemic , but Glenn ’s youngest son , Adam , has promised to carry on its legacy .
New York is far richer for it .

A unexpected 'extra' when I cancelled a flexible holiday booking - a voucher .
2020-05-13 06:09:04 +00:00 .
I also had cancellation cover but Holiday Extra has still refused the refund I am dueI made a flexible booking with cancellation cover from Holiday Extras for an airport hotel and parking and , on 11 March , I cancelled it .
I was promised a full refund .
Two weeks later they offered a voucher , instead .
A statement appeared on its website announcing that all customers who cancelled bookings after 17 March would receive a voucher , not a refund , which was irrelevant to my case .
I again requested the refund and received another confirmation that I would get my money back within 30 days .
A further month went by and I was informed it was changing its terms and conditions because Covid-19 was a force majeure and I had to accept a voucher .
My cancellation was n’t related to Covid-19 .
It has now removed the 17 March statement from its website .
I do n’t understand how , having written to me on three occasions confirming it was processing my refund , it is able to change its terms and conditions .
Continue reading ...

Judge questions coronavirus case against 'homeless' London man .
2020-05-12 11:02:25 +00:00 .
A judge has questioned the Crown Prosecution Service ’s decision to charge a man who said he was homeless with allegedly breaching coronavirus regulations by leaving “ the place where he was living ” .
The dispute over the legality of emergency powers at Westminster magistrates court on Monday comes amid a CPS review of all charges brought under coronavirus health regulations because of recent errors .
Sultan Monsour , 45 , was arrested at London ’s Liverpool Street station on 5 May and charged with being “ outside of the place where you were living , namely no fixed address ” .
The district judge , Alexander Jacobs , questioned the legality of the charge but the prosecutor , Malachy Pakenham , said the CPS was determined to pursue the matter .
Pakenham argued Monsour could be tried under the Coronavirus Act because he had initially told police he lived in Stratford , before stating that he was homeless .
The prosecutor said : “ He was seen at Liverpool Street station before , when he was travelling , and warned .
The officer who warned him then saw him 10 days later and his patience ran out . ” Jacobs asked : ‘ “ Is it not a defence that the regulation does n’t apply to a person who is homeless ?
If he is homeless then the charge ‘ that he left the place he was living , namely no fixed address ’ does n’t make sense to me . ”
Pakenham said the police had an address for Monsour which seemed to satisfy the conditions .
Monsour had reportedly told a police officer on another occasion he was going to see his girlfriend , and earlier , he had said he was going to a market .
“ Unnecessary travel is an offence , ” Pakenham said .
“ The fact is he told police he had an address . ”
Jacobs said : “ But even the arresting officer said : ‘ I was arresting him for breaching coronavirus conditions because he had no address ’ . ”
The judge asked the CPS to reassess the charge .
An hour later the prosecutor returned to tell the court : “ We will be proceeding with these charges to trial . ”
At the hearing , Monsour admitted carrying a hammer in his bag last February and claimed it was for his protection .
Pakenham told the court : “ On February 25 he was speaking to Italian women about Bangladeshis marrying Italians .
He ’s approached by police and asked about the claw hammer .
He said it was for his safety in case anyone wants to attack and kill him . ”
The defence counsel , Omololu Thomas , said : “ He was carrying it for his own protection . ”
Monsour interrupted : ‘ The Italian girls made a complaint against me , I did n’t touch them .
They said that I am gay .
I asked them if they liked me and they said no .
I asked them why they were talking about me like that , then .
They said they were calling the police . ”
Monsour , of no fixed address , was fined £ 200 after admitting possession of an offensive weapon in a public place .
He was granted bail until 22 June , when he will stand trial for leaving a place without reasonable excuse during the coronavirus emergency period .
The CPS has been asked for comment .

Carmaking starts up again as Bentley and Toyota workers return .
2020-05-11 15:51:17 +00:00 .
Employees at two UK automotive plants are returning to work this week as the British economy tries to restart under the shadow of coronavirus restrictions .
The government on Monday published its plan to restart the economy , including reiterating its advice that all manufacturers should return to work with physical distancing in place .
At the same time , Toyota and Bentley reopened sites as one of the country ’s key industries slowly returns to life .
Toyota , the world ’s second - largest carmaker by volume , is restarting production for the petrol and hybrid engines produced at its plant in Deeside .
Some 550 workers return to the factory in north Wales for briefing on Monday and Tuesday , after it shut on 18 March .
New safety measures at the Deeside plant will include screens between workers , mandatory face masks , knee - operated sinks , and tools to allow employees to operate button - operated machinery without direct contact .
Luxury carmaker Bentley has halved the production rate at its Crewe factory as it reopened on Monday .
Some 1,700 workers will return to the factory floor at the German - owned manufacturer , with about a quarter of its workers remaining furloughed .
Jim Crosbie , managing director of Toyota Motor Manufacturing UK , said he believed the flexibility of UK automotive manufacturers would be a key factor in surving the lockdown as sales slowly return .
However , he said he was not expecting a “ V - shaped ” recovery in sales , suggesting a recovery could be drawn out .
“ Many countries across Europe are now easing their lockdown measures , ” Crosbie said .
“ We need to see how that affects the market .
“ We need to be flexible in manufacturing , as we always have to be .
It could be very high , it could be moderate , it could be lower .
We need to be ready to respond to that . ”
Aston Martin Lagonda and Rolls - Royce were the first large car producers to get back to work last week .
Jaguar Land Rover , the UK ’s largest car manufacturer , will restart one production shift with 2,500 workers at its Solihull factory on 18 May , while some employees will return this week to its Wolverhampton engine plant .
Workers in construction , the other sector named explicitly by Boris Johnson in his Sunday evening address to the nation , have also returned to sites .
Taylor Wimpey and Vistry , formerly known as Bovis , were the first big housebuilders to reopen sites .
Persimmon , Redrow and Barratt have also reopened sites around the UK .
However , some factories will remain closed for weeks to come , in part because of the uncertainties around demand .
Toyota ’s other plant at Burnaston , Derbyshire , which manufactures the Corolla hatchback , will not reopen until at least 26 May. Honda at the end of last week postponed the reopening of its Swindon plant , which had been scheduled for Monday , citing the need to implement safety measures as well as demand - and - supply chain issues .
The UK car industry still faces the enormous challenge of selling its products , with buyers unable to return to showrooms until 1 June at the very earliest .
Although Toyota ’s UK operations had not so far had issues in their supply chains , pressure was on Monday becoming evident for suppliers to other manufacturers .
Arlington Automotive Group , a large supplier of thermostats to companies such as Jaguar Land Rover , Ford and Nissan , on Thursday appointed administrators ,
putting as many as 600 jobs at risk at sites across England .

'Games every day' – La Liga outlines plan for return to action on 12 June .
2020-05-11 12:50:03 +00:00 .
Spanish football should return with the Seville derby on 12 June , according to the president of La Liga , Javier Tebas .
If all goes to plan , the league season will be completed by the end of July in time for European competition to get under way , with games played every day for six weeks behind closed doors and the title , European places and relegation slots all to be decided .
There is optimism after teams returned to training over the last three days .
Five players have tested positive for Covid-19 so far , with Tebas describing the risk during games as “ virtually non - existent ” .
The president of the league was bullish as he appeared on a specially - arranged TV programme broadcast on Movistar , the channel that holds the rights to La Liga , under the slogan “ To return is to win ” .
Designed to celebrate and project growing confidence that the league season can be completed , the show announced that Sevilla - Betis will reopen the season , which has 10 weeks left in the first division and 11 remaining in the second division .
And although Sergio Ramos said that he would like “ a few more days ” , Tebas expressed his optimism that it can get under way on 12 June .
There are no guarantees , though .
“ We do n’t know
[ when we can start ] , no one knows the date , ” Tebas said .
“ It will depend on spikes in the numbers and all the rules being followed .
The virus is still there .
But if it can be on 12 June , so much the better .
If we all follow the health rules , I do n’t think we ’re going to have any problem .
The idea is to finish on 31 July and that August can be left for European competitions .
Those dates can [ then ] also be used for the play - offs [ in Spain ] .
There will be league [ games ] every day , as already happens in March and April with a normal fixture list . ”
Although that assertion is not true following the Spanish Federation ’s intervention to prevent Monday night matches , there has been no suggestion that the league will face any challenge to their plan to play daily matches .
A successful return to work for most clubs has been a significant step towards a return , following a protocol that runs parallel to the government ’s four - phase plan for a de - escalation of the state of alarm .
There have been fewer infected footballers than the league had planned for .
Those who test positive for Covid-19 will have to isolate and will not be allowed to return to work until they have undergone two consecutive tests that show up as negative .
“ We expected 25 or 30 positives [ for Covid-19 among players ] , ” Tebas said .
“ We had made a statistical calculation based on the spread of the virus in Spain which gave us that number .
There are five , and three who are n’t footballers .
That ’s eight from 2,500 tests .
“ When the competition comes back , everyone due to play will undergo a test 24 hours before and if he is positive , he wo n’t play .
The test ’s failure rate is 5 % .
The risk during a football game is going to be practically inexistent .
We ’ve done a study that says that the place where there is least risk is during the games and where there is the most risk is at home .
“ If things are done the way they have been up until now there ’s no reason to have five infected players in a single team .
If that happens , there must have been some negligence .
Not the clubs , but the players .
If we all do the right things , I do n’t think there will be problems . ”

Ken Fleet obituary .
2020-05-11 10:02:16 +00:00 .
My colleague Ken Fleet , who has died aged 87 from Covid-19 , directed the Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation for more than 50 years .
He also became secretary of the Institute for Workers ’ Control on its founding in 1968 .
As that eventful decade drew to a close , Ken brought his skills as a chartered accountant to the service of international peace and the Labour movement .
He was born in Chertsey , Surrey , the only child of Len , a coachbuilder , and his wife , Doreen ( nee Tilson ) , and later moved with his parents to Buckinghamshire , and went to grammar school there .
National service took him to Chilwell near Nottingham , where he eventually put down roots , marrying Mary Watson in 1959 .
He trained as an accountant and moved into industry , becoming senior accountant at the textile company Courtaulds .
In the mid-1960s , Ken enrolled in a class at the Nottingham Workers ’ Educational Association taught by the activist and writer Ken Coates and a long and productive relationship between the two Kens began .
As a young accountant , Ken had discovered the books of Bertrand Russell , so he was well disposed when Coates asked him to put the Russell Foundation , which had been set up in London in 1963 , on a more secure footing in Nottingham .
Ken took over as secretary in 1969 , and also became a publisher as the foundation ’s Spokesman Books imprint developed its list of publications on peace , nuclear disarmament , human rights and social justice .
In the early 1980s , Ken was instrumental in establishing the European Nuclear Disarmament campaign .
The END appeal , drafted by EP Thompson , Coates and others , had a return address at Bertrand Russell House , and Ken struggled to cope with the huge mailbags arriving daily ; it was at this time that I joined the foundation .
Ken helped organise the annual END conventions which met throughout the 1980s .
Ken ’s friendliness and comradeship sustained the Institute for Workers ’ Control through its existence from 1968 to the early 1980s .
He organised conferences , arranged workshops and lined up speakers .
He was particularly pleased that Ron Todd , general secretary of the Transport and General Workers ’ Union , came to the IWC “ What Went Wrong ” conference at Nottingham in 1980 when , following Labour ’s 1979 general election defeat , Tony Benn was preparing to challenge Denis Healey for the deputy leadership of the Labour party , which Michael Foot was by then leading .
As a former marine , Ron also shared the Russell Foundation ’s commitment to getting rid of nuclear weapons , and he and the TGWU sent big delegations to END conventions .
In 1989 , Coates was elected to the European parliament and Ken became his parliamentary assistant , remaining in the role until Coates ’s defeat in 1999 , a year after his expulsion from the Labour party .
Ken continued as secretary of the Russell Foundation until his death .
He was an everyman ; like Russell , he had the common touch enlivened by a good sense of humour .
Mary died in 2017 ; he is survived by their three children , Kate , Jeremy and Robert , and a granddaughter , Hannah .

UK coronavirus live: Boris Johnson to give more detail on lockdown changes .
2020-05-11 07:00:20 +00:00 .
2.50am EDT 02:50 Boris Johnson famously dislikes disappointing the people around him , writes the Guardian ’s deputy political editor Rowena Mason in this analysis .
The result is this weekend ’s barrage of confused messaging over whether the lockdown is ending , as he tries to please both sides in the battle raging within the Tory party about how to respond to the coronavirus crisis .
On the one hand , the rightwing hawks in his cabinet have been pushing him towards a swift return to business as usual to save the economy , setting out a roadmap to lifting the lockdown sooner rather than later .
On the other , the more centrist doves , including the health secretary , Matt Hancock , have been pulling him in another direction , urging caution for fear of a second peak and more lost lives .
The received wisdom is that Johnson is now on the side of the doves following his brush with death during a four - day spell in intensive care suffering from Covid-19 .
2.47am EDT 02:47
Martin Farrer has a roundup of this morning ’s UK front pages – 2.38am EDT 02:38
Frances Perraudin Good morning .
I ’m Frances Perraudin and I ’ll be guiding you through this morning ’s developments in the UK ’s coronavirus crisis .
Boris Johnson is set to explain his plan for easing coronavirus restrictions to parliament today , following criticism that yesterday ’s address to the nation was vague and confusing .
It will be the first time the prime minister has ever made a statement in the commons on coronavirus .
Johnson will publish a 50 - page “ blueprint ” for the next stage in tackling the virus this afternoon , before heading to the chamber for a one hour session with MPs at 3.30pm .
He ’ll then take part in a QA , answering questions submitted by the public .
He announced yesterday that people who ca n’t work from home should start returning to work from today if they can – “ if possible ” avoiding pubic transport and instead using a car , walking or cycling .
We ’ll see how that goes this morning .
Unions have raised alarm that asking people to return to work before proper guidance is in place risks lives .
Frances O’Grady , general secretary of the TUC , said : The government still has n’t published guidance on how workers will be kept safe .
So how can the prime minister – with 12 hours ’ notice – tell people they should be going back to sites and factories ?
It ’s a recipe for chaos .
Johnson also announced that he was hoping for a rapid reopening of primary schools in England on 1 June while older pupils remain at home .
Paul Whiteman , general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers ( NAHT ) – which represents most primary school heads in England – said there was “ little explanation of why or how such a return is considered to be safe ” , and that the announcement would not convince parents or school leaders .
The first minsters of both Scotland and Wales have said they will not be reopening schools so soon , and are both sticking with the “ stay at home ” message , rather than the UK government ’s new – widely criticised – “ stay alert ” alternative .
You can read about Johnson ’s other announcements – including that two people from separate households can meet outside , providing they they stay 2 m apart – in this explainer from Guardian political correspondent Peter Walker .

Bundesliga CEO adamant season will restart despite positive tests at Dresden .
2020-05-10 16:51:07 +00:00 .
The Bundesliga is keen to press ahead with its plans to restart the season for the top two tiers next weekend , despite the Dynamo Dresden squad being quarantined for two weeks .
The players of the 2 .
Bundesliga side were sent home at the weekend after two players tested positive for coronavirus .
This means that they ca n’t play their first two games of the restart – against Hannover on 17 May and against Fürth on the following weekend .
However , speaking to ZDF , the Bundesliga CEO , Christian Seifert , said that what had happened in Dresden , where the local authorities told the club that the players had to quarantine , did not mean that the top two league could not kick off on Saturday 16 May.
“ For the second division that means at the moment that from 81 games , two Dynamo Dresden games ca n’t be played .
We have to see how we deal with that .
We are not changing our aim , and we are not changing our plans .
The aim remains to finish the season . ”
The delay for Dresden would mean that they could potentially re - enter the fray on the weekend of the 26 and 27 May , although that would lead to them immediately playing three games in one week .
“ It is only hypothetical to talk about what would happen if the same thing happens to other teams , ” continued Seifert .
“ A lot of teams are being tested for the third of fourth time and now we have the special case of Dresden .
“ Just because they have to go into quarantine for 14 days does not mean that we have to question the continuation of the second division because that is only two from 81 games .
There is , of course , a number [ of postponed games ] that means that it is not possible to finish the season but what that number is I can not say at the moment .
That depends on how many teams are affected and how much time is left to finish the season .
Seifert added that there was enough leeway in the scheduling for Dresden to play all their remaining games .

This week's best culture, at home – from Barber Shop banter to Queen Victoria .
2020-05-10 07:53:07 +00:00 .
Barber Shop Chronicles A never - before - broadcast recording of Inua Ellams ’s 2017
hit play splicing stories and banter with barbs and laughter .
Available to stream for seven days from 7 pm Thursday on the National Theatre ’s YouTube channel .
Clare Brennan Night of the Living Dead ™ – Remix Ghoul in graveyard , blonde on sofa , little girl gnawing the bone of a dead relative .
Shot by shot , innovative company
Imitating the Dog and Leeds Playhouse replicate and dismantle the action of George Romero ’s 1968 zombie movie , which plays in the background .
A feat of ingenuity and a conjuring of America ’s unconscious , which reminds us not to believe our eyes .
On a pay - what - you - like basis until 17 July at imitatingthedog.co.uk Susannah Clapp Alma The green - haired Finnish pop powerhouse levels up on her forthcoming debut full - length project , Have U Seen Her ? , recorded in the LA sunshine but packing plenty of Scandinavian pop chiaroscuro .
Out on Friday .
Kitty Empire Art of Now : Berlin ’s Nightlife Berlin ’s club scene is the envy of the world .
Produced before Covid-19 , this Radio 4 documentary asks how a € 1.5bn sector can adapt to rising rents .
Is government support , such as that for opera houses , an option for sweaty techno dungeons ?
BBC Radio 4 , Thursday , 11.30am .
KE New York City Ballet New York City Ballet is running a brilliant season of work , announced every Monday , with ballets by founder choreographers George Balanchine and Jerome Robbins for three days from Tuesday , then new work on Friday for a further three days .
Pieces by Pam Tanowitz and Kyle Abraham are to come , but this week ’s offering ( until the end of today ) is Alexei Ratmansky ’s masterful 2008 piece to Shostakovich ’s Piano Concert
No 2 , full of fun and invention .
From Tuesday to Friday , a mixed programme includes extracts from Balanchine ’s The Four Seasons and The Four Temperaments , and Robbins ’s Afternoon of a Faun ; Friday 15 May brings Justin Peck ’s Pulcinella Variations to Stravinsky .
Sarah Crompton Anthropocene In their 2019 operatic thriller Anthropocene , commissioned by Scottish Opera , composer Stuart MacRae and writer Louise Welsh explore climate change and the issues it raises for humanity .
A top cast includes Jennifer France and Benedict Nelson .
Available on operavision.eu until Thursday .
Fiona Maddocks The World ’s Most Photographed : Queen Victoria Riveting examination of the way the camera transformed the relationship between the monarchy and the British people during Victoria ’s 64 - year reign , from the young bride to the deeply grieving widow , in daguerreotypes and even early Kodak shots .
On BBC Two , Wednesday , 10 pm .
Laura Cumming Frieze New York Visit the art fair ’s viewing rooms online at your leisure , with swathes of international work , old and new , from artists as diverse as William Kentridge , Rodney Graham and Yinka Shonibare , Marlene Dumas , Cindy Sherman and Alex Katz .
Until Friday at frieze.com LC Mo Gilligan ’s All Star Happy Hour Much - loved standup
Mo Gilligan hosts this new four - part lockdown show live from his own home .
The hour - long show is brimming with celebrity guests , musical performances , sketches and games for members of the public to play .
Mondays , Channel 4 , 10 pm .
Kadish Morris

London police body criticises government's 'wish-washy' coronavirus response .
2020-05-10 07:12:51 +00:00 .
A body representing police officers in London has criticised the government ’s pandemic response as “ wishy - washy ” amid concerns that the public has begun ignoring lockdown restrictions .
The Metropolitan Police Federation ( MPF ) said that , despite its assertions to the contrary , the government is sending out mixed messages .
MPF ’s Ken Marsh told BBC Radio 4 that authorities “ needed to be firmer right from the beginning ” .
He said : “ It ’s been quite wishy - washy how we ’ve gone about it .
Had we been very stringent from the off – it is painful , but it ’s not overly painful in terms of what you ’re actually being asked to do – then I think we would have a better result now . ”
Health officials have said they fear Britons are starting to get complacent about the Covid-19 lockdown after traffic and mobile phone data revealed more people are on the roads and looking for directions .
Prof Stephen Powis , national medical director of NHS England , said on Saturday that “ there was a little bit of concern ” after the unseasonably warm weather drew big crowds to public spaces .
Scotland Yard sent officers on bikes to keep an eye on London ’s Hyde Park , while North Yorkshire Police revealed that 50 % of shutdown fines issued so far have gone to tourists visiting beauty spots in the area .
The criticism came as a diagnostic expert asked to consult on the government ’s Covid-19 contact tracing app criticised it for focusing on coughs and fever at the exclusion of other symptoms .
The smartphone download was being trialled on the Isle of Wight before its anticipated roll - out across the rest of the country later this month .
Dr Nick Summerton , a GP with 32 years ’ experience , told the Sunday Mirror the app risked ignoring 10 symptoms other than fever or cough .
He said : “ The first point I made was include many more symptoms .
The second was they should talk to Tim Spector about symptom clustering work he has done .
To ignore such good work is strange . ”
Prof Spector , of King ’s College London , launched the Covid-19 Symptom Tracker app on 23 March , with some three million people using it in Britain and the US since .
He said the government , however , had refused to work with his team .
“ The government is putting politics above science
, ” he told the Mirror .
“ We should be using a combination of symptoms to diagnose this .
It would save lives .
We are falling behind other countries . ”
The app requires smartphone users to download it and share data the moment they test positive or display signs of Covid-19 , with the app sending a notification to all mobile phone users who have been in recent proximity advising them to self - isolate .
Experts have said time is a main factor in the app helping contain the spread of coronavirus .

Aberfan teacher Rennie Williams dies aged 86 .
2020-05-09 14:18:15 +00:00 .
A teacher who led pupils to safety during the Aberfan school disaster has died aged 86 .
Rennie Williams , from Merthyr Tydfil , was recognised for her bravery when a colliery spoil tip collapsed on to Pantglas primary school and a number of surrounding buildings on 21 October 1966 .
A total of 116 children and 28 adults were killed in the disaster .
Williams , who had been receiving treatment for cancer , died on Wednesday .
In an interview with Wales Online in 2006 , Williams said of the 1966 tragedy : “ We were just taking register and carrying on as normal .
I heard a terrible noise that I thought must be the caretaker moving furniture around in the hall .
Of course it was n’t . ”
Some of her pupils were injured and trapped in the school hall , but Williams managed to bring them out of the building safely .
She was one of four teachers who survived the disaster , along with Mair Morgan , Hettie Williams and Howell Williams .
She returned to teach the surviving children after the disaster .
David Davies , the chair of the Aberfan Memorial Charity , said : “ Rennie was a much loved and respected member of our community family for many years , being first one of the heroic surviving teachers at Pantglas junior school at the time of the Aberfan disaster in 1966 and later at the new Ynysowen village school .
“ Rennie nurtured many of the young children of our community and others over many decades of service , and her legacy will live on through all who were privileged to know and be guided by her in those formative early years .
“ We had many opportunities to meet up with Rennie and the other surviving teachers over the years , including at the 50th anniversary commemorative events in 2016 , and it was always such a joy .
Rennie will be sadly missed but never forgotten here in Aberfan . ”
Jeff Edwards , who was eight years old when he was rescued from the rubble , described Williams as a “ lovely lady , very caring and thoughtful ” .
He told BBC Wales : “ She saved a lot of children .
And in the years later , she always stayed in touch with them . ”
Edwards said he was saddened that only a small number of people would be able to attend her funeral owing to coronavirus restrictions .
“ It ’s so sad , I ’m sure hundreds would have wanted to go .
I just hope they are able to hold a memorial service sometime later , ” he said .

20m Americans lost their jobs in April in worst month since Great Depression .
2020-05-08 13:08:02 +00:00 .
More than 20 million people in the US lost their jobs in April and the unemployment rate more than trebled as the coronavirus pandemic shuttered the global economy , triggering a financial crisis unseen since the Great Depression .
The Department of Labor announced Friday that the US unemployment rate rose to 14.7 % from just 4.4 % in March and a near 50 - year low of 3.5 % in February before the US was hit by the virus .
A decade ’s worth of job gains have now been wiped out in under two months .
The latest jobs losses are the worst monthly figure on record .
The previous peak for unemployment was 10.8 % in 1982 and the largest monthly job loss , close to 2 m , came in September 1945 at the end of the second world war , when the country was demobilizing .
April ’s job losses also easily eclipsed the 800,000 jobs lost in March 2009 , the height of the last recession .
The job losses swept across the economy , hitting all industries .
Leisure and hospitality lost 7.7 m jobs as the sector was hit hard by quarantine measures .
But 2.5 m jobs were also lost in education and health services , where dentist offices shed 503,000 people .
Retail lost 2.1 m jobs and manufacturing employment dropped by 1.3 m. Unemployment for African Americans soared from 6.7 % last month to 16.7 % , wiping out all of the gains made since the last recession .
For white Americans unemployment also rose sharply , from 4 % to 14.2 % .
Some 22.4 million people dropped out of the labor force during the month – meaning they stopped looking for work .
The labor force participation rate – which measures the percentage of the population working or looking for work – dropped 2.5 % over the month to 60.2 % , the lowest rate since January 1973 .
“ These are truly mind - blowing numbers , ” said Jason Reed , professor of finance at the University of Notre Dame ’s Mendoza College of Business .
“ We have n’t seen anything like this since the Great Depression . ”
The figures probably undercount the true impact of the outbreak as state unemployment offices have been overwhelmed and millions have yet to have their benefit claims accepted .
“ The employment situation report confirms what we already know about the economy .
Regardless of the official number , we know that one in five workers filed for unemployment insurance .
This is a staggering , ” said Reed .
The scale of the crisis has overwhelmed state unemployment systems .
Friday ’s report follows the news on Thursday that another 3.2 million Americans filed for unemployment benefits last week .
The number of filings has been declining on a weekly basis but remains at a historically high level .
More than 33 million people have filed claims in the last seven weeks .
States including California , Ohio and Washington are weeks away from running out of funds to pay claims .
Washington state said it approved Ivan
Schierling ’s unemployment benefits on 27 March , but seven weeks later , he still has n’t received a payment .
In the meantime , bills are piling up for his credit card , healthcare and car payments .
“ This does n’t include just paying to live , ” Schierling , 34 , said .
“ I ca n’t pay for my milk or for gas to get around .
I ’m kind of frozen . ”
A $ 1,200 government stimulus check immediately went to paying off bills and his former employer does n’t know when they will be able to hire people back .
“ There ’s nothing I can do , I ’m just sitting , slowly running out of cash , ”
Schierling said .

'It's a really weird realisation': when cancelled holidays come with silver linings .
2020-05-08 00:06:51 +00:00 .
From June 2018 to June 2019 , the Australian Bureau of Statistics says Australians made a record 11.3 million trips overseas – double the number of trips just 10 years ago .
In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic , millions of Australians have been forced to cancel or alter their international travel plans .
This has left many Australians struggling to get refunds from travel providers .
Flight Centre was charging $ 300 in processing fees per person , in some cases leading to fees that cost more than the value of the refund , until the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission stepped in and threatened legal action , causing the company to waive fees for trips cancelled by travel providers .
The ACCC also warned travel providers against retroactively changing their cancellation policies after tour companies including Topdeck and Intrepid attempted to retrospectively apply updated refund policies that would force customers to take credit rather than cash for cancelled trips .
Many frustrated customers are now faced with rebooking or losing their holidays , despite an uncertain outlook , or accepting notes of credit from companies whose futures look shaky .
But those who have managed to secure cash refunds or pulled the plug on planned trips prior to booking have experienced unexpected positives .
Benjamin Neutze , who works for Opera Australia , was meant to be visiting New York at the end of April .
He had booked many elements of his trip nine months in advance , including accommodation at a hotel in Times Square .
“ I was hoping they would give me credit , ” he says – but the hotel ended up offering him a cash refund .
Because the Australian dollar had fallen between the time of his booking , and the time of his refund , he was “ lucky enough to get a refund that was $ 250 more ” than he had originally paid .
“ It ’s a really weird realisation , ” he says .
Neutze also expects to make a small amount of money from refunds on theatre tickets .
“ I suppose there are silver linings everywhere you look , ” he says .
Patrick Stevenson , a photographer , had a similar experience .
When he received the refund for his tickets to the now - postponed Coachella music festival , he discovered he had made about $ 200 due to currency fluctuations .
While not everyone has been lucky enough to receive a cash windfall , others have decided to reallocate their travel money to other priorities .
An artist Guardian Australia spoke to says she is planning to use the savings she accrued for a residency abroad for paying off her debts .
Meanwhile , Lani Wulff and her husband were planning to spend their honeymoon in Hawaii and Los Angeles .
While she says “ it ’s been very shit ” to have to cancel , “ I am also happy that we are safe and healthy ” .
She managed to avoid incurring fees during the cancellation process , and now “ the money we were going to spend on the honeymoon will go toward our house deposit … We did n’t think finally reaching a decent deposit amount was going to happen this year due to the trip .
But now that it ’s been cancelled , that ’s changed . ”
When lockdown restrictions ease and recreational travel becomes possible again , the pair are planning a more modest honeymoon in their home state of New South Wales instead – because they “ need that break badly ! ”
Has there been a silver lining to your cancelled holiday ?
Share it with us in the comments .
Note : some comments may be published in a future article .

Tony Morgan obituary .
2020-05-07 18:10:03 +00:00 .
My friend and colleague Tony Morgan , who has died aged 83 after contracting Covid-19 , was one of the heroes of the early days of computers .
As a computer engineer from the late 1950s , he was responsible for the installation of the pioneering Leo computers worldwide , including for the GPO ( now BT ) for telephone billing .
After a 38 - year career he remained an active member of the Leo Heritage Project , using his unrivalled knowledge to identify the company ’s artefacts .
Born in Kenton , near Harrow , Middlesex , to William Morgan , an architect , and Millie ( nee Ferguson ) , Tony went to Harrow County grammar school and , after getting four A - levels , did his national service with the RAF , where he was trained as an air - radar fitter .
When at school he had heard a radio broadcast about the original Lyons – of Corner House teashop fame - collaboration with Cambridge University to build the Leo ( Lyons Electronic Office ) computer , and the resultant world ’s first business data processing application being run in 1951 .
This had fired Tony ’s imagination , and after demob he joined Leo Computers in 1957 as a trainee engineer .
He was moved to work on the first Leo II before completing the course , progressing to shift leader and , as a result of his skill and understanding of the technology , to chief commissioning engineer by 1964 .
The role of commissioning engineers in the 1960s and 70s was demanding : in those days there was a single engineer responsible for commissioning each system .
This required management skills to manage the supporting team of engineers , operators and support staff as well as leading all stages from understanding the configuration , testing all units and the operating system , and passing a formal factory acceptance test based on the stringent requirements of the standard government contracts .
In 1964 , Tony took over management of commissioning the Leo III computer range of what was by that time English Electric Leo .
Over the next four years he led the introduction of the faster Leo 326 machines that initially went to the GPO ( now BT ) for telephone billing and premium bonds , one of the largest single computer orders ever at that time .
These advanced business computers were bought by large companies , government and overseas customers .
When Leo was incorporated in the newly formed International Computers Limited in 1968 , Tony moved into product planning , specifying new machines .
From the mid-70s he worked for the department responsible for selling and supporting systems to the GPO but was still called on to troubleshoot “ difficult ” service problems .
From 1981 he worked in ICL ’s customer service HQ monitoring the performance of all the UK customers ’ systems .
Tony took early retirement in 1995 but continued to work with the Heritage Project in the rescue and identification of computer artefacts , and advised on two books , User Driven Innovation ( 1996 ) , edited by David Caminer and Leo , The First Business Computer ( 1994 ) , by Peter Bird .
As well as a demanding job , Tony was very sociable , and lived a full life with a wide range of activities .
He played rugby for Lyons / Centaurs until he was 42 and continued as treasurer and club secretary for a further 25 years .
His passion was Formula One and he detailed records of all races for over 50 years .
Keen on jazz , he attended dance weekends until arthritis stopped it .
He is survived by his sister , Hilary .

Australian celebrity chef Pete Evans under fire for sharing views of UK conspiracy theorist David Icke .
2020-05-07 14:05:58 +00:00 .
The celebrity chef Pete Evans has come under fresh criticism for promoting the coronavirus views of David Icke , the British conspiracy theorist previously accused of Holocaust denial and barred from entering Australia .
On Tuesday , 11 days after the Therapeutic Goods Administration fined him $ 25,200 for spruiking a $ 15,000 light machine to fight coronavirus , Evans urged his Instagram followers to watch a three - hour - long interview in which Icke simultaneously claims Covid-19 is “ a fake pandemic with no virus ” and links infections to 5 G antenna installations .
Icke also compares Covid-19 distancing measures to “ Nazi Germany fascism ” in the interview that appears to have been recorded during the same week that Facebook and YouTube deleted his accounts for making claims about 5 G and coronavirus .
Evans ’s social media post prompted the Labor MP Josh Burns , who is Jewish , to write to the chef on Thursday , warning him about Icke ’s “ long history of anti - Semitism ” and cautioning him against promoting his views on social media .
In his Instagram post linking to the interview , Evans wrote : “ Here is an alternative view , I would be keen to hear your thoughts on this video as to whether their is any validity in this mans message , especially as there seems to be a lot of conflicting messages coming out of the mainstream these days .
“ What is the truth ?
I personally loved the last 30 minutes talking about heart frequency and LOVE , ” Evans told his 231,000 followers .
On Thursday evening , the link to the Icke interview on the London Real website was still set as Evans ’s Instagram biography hyperlink .
The interview was also uploaded to Spotify , but later taken down by the company for violating its content policies .
Burns , the federal Labor MP for the Melbourne seat of Macnamara , cautioned the chef against using his public platform to promote Icke and his “ abhorrent ” views .
In 2019 , Burns and several Jewish community leaders campaigned for the government to revoke Icke ’s visa , which it ultimately rescinded hours before he was due to board a plane to Australia for his speaking tour .
“ I felt that it is important you are aware of the offensive historical works by Mr Icke , ” Burns told Evans in the letter , seen by the Guardian .
“ Mr Icke was denied a visa to Australia for good reason – his conspiracy theories incite hatred of Jewish people ...
David Icke is not just controversial ; he is a racist .
He espouses a dark and old form of anti - Semitism that is personally offensive and that has no place in Australian society .
“ While we obviously do not agree on vaccinations , I would hope that we could agree that all forms of racism must be confronted and opposed .
As such , I ask you to not promote Mr Icke and his abhorrent views again , ” Burns wrote .
Icke has denied being antisemitic and a Holocaust denier .
The Guardian has contacted Evans for comment .
There is no suggestion Evans holds antisemitic or racist views .
A former footballer and sports presenter , the 68 - year - old Icke claims the world is run by an Illuminati of lizard people , with the Jewish Rothschild family among its leaders .
Icke was dumped by his publisher after writing in his 1995 book And The Truth Shall Set You Free : “ Why do we play a part in suppressing alternative information to the official line of the Second World War ?
How is it right that while this fierce suppression goes on , free copies of the Spielberg film , Schindler ’s List , are given to schools to indoctrinate children with the unchallenged version of events ? ”

Author of Guardian article on death tolls asks UK government to stop using it .
2020-05-06 19:49:17 +00:00 .
A statistician has asked the government to stop using an article he wrote for the Guardian as justification for why Britain ’s death toll from coronavirus should not be compared with that of other countries .
Prof David Spiegelhalter said in the piece published on 30 April that comparing the number of deaths from Covid-19 between countries was difficult because of the different methodologies used by governments to measure deaths .
His article points out that even though the UK had begun including coronavirus deaths in non - hospital settings , the total toll was still probably too low as it did not include the many deaths of people who had not been tested .
Spiegelhalter notes other countries also use different methodologies , such as Spain where deaths in care homes are not included .
The day the article was published , England ’s chief medical officer , Prof Chris Whitty , praised it during the No 10 daily coronavirus briefing , saying it showed that comparing death rates in different countries was a “ fruitless exercise ” .
Boris Johnson again referred to Spiegelhalter ’s words on Wednesday in a response to the Labour leader , Keir Starmer , during prime minister ’s questions , after Britain ’s death toll became the highest in Europe and second highest globally .
According to latest official figures , at least 30,150 people have died from the virus in the UK .
The prime minister said Starmer “ is right to draw attention to the appalling statistics not just in this country and
but of course around the world .
I would echo what we ’ve heard from Prof David Spiegelhalter and others that at this stage , I do n’t think that international comparisons and the data is yet there to draw all the conclusions that we want .
“ There will be a time to look at what decisions we took and whether we could have taken different decisions . ”
However , a few hours later Spiegelhalter , tweeted : “ Polite request to PM and others : please stop using my Guardian article to claim we can not make any international comparisons yet .
I refer only to detailed league tables - of course we should now use other countries to try and learn why our numbers are high ” .
Spiegelhalter , who has previously been invited to participate in a meeting of the government ’s Sage committee , is the Winton professor of public understanding of risk at Cambridge University .

Five more Debenhams stores to shut for good with 1,000 jobs at risk .
2020-05-06 19:29:46 +00:00 .
Debenhams will permanently close a further five of its department stores , all located in shopping centres owned by the property firm Hammerson , putting 1,000 jobs at risk .
The news came as Hammerson ’s deal to sell its retail parks to the private equity firm Orion also collapsed .
Debenhams fell into administration for the second time in a year last month , as it sought to protect itself from legal action by its creditors during the pandemic .
The latest closures to be announced , which include its stores in the Oracle shopping centre in Reading and in Birmingham ’s Bullring , means that 16 of its UK outlets will remain shuttered when lockdown restrictions are eased .
Last month Debenhams said the so - called “ light touch ” administration , being handled by insolvency practitioners at FRP Advisory , aimed to “ get the business into a position to reopen and trade as many stores as possible again when restrictions are lifted ” .
Since then , the retailer has been in negotiations with its landlords , and has reached agreement on 120 of its 142 sites , while the future of an additional six hangs in the balance .
The majority of Debenhams ’ staff have been furloughed , although its website has continued to trade during .
Like other fashion retailers , the department store chain , which employed more than 20,000 people before administration , has been badly affected by the coronavirus lockdown .
However , Debenhams was struggling with a £ 600 m debt pile before the crisis led to the temporary closure of all of its stores .
Its deteriorating finances resulted in administration in April 2019 , which wiped out the firm ’s shareholders and transferred ownership to a group of financial investors including the US hedge funds Silver Point and GoldenTree .
Debenhams has previously used an insolvency process employed by other struggling retailers , known as a company voluntary arrangement ( CVA ) , to enable it to cut rents and close unprofitable stores , including 19 shops which shut for good in January .
Since the coronavirus lockdown it has written to landlords asking for a five - month rent holiday and written to its suppliers to inform them they would be getting their money a month later than expected as it seeks to conserve cash .
Hammerson , one of Britain ’s biggest shopping centre owners , said in April that its rent takings had fallen by two - thirds as struggling retailers tried to cut costs .
It reported it had received a flood of requests for rent deferrals or waivers as the majority of its tenants had been forced to close their stores during the lockdown .
The company , which owns Brent Cross in London , will now be left with five vacancies in its malls which were previously occupied by Debenhams outlets .
In a further blow to the property company , it said its £ 400 m deal to sell seven retail parks to Orion had been scrapped , after the private equity firm said it would not complete the purchase .
Hammerson said it would keep the £ 21 m deposit it had received from Orion .
However , this was not enough to appease investors , and Hammerson ’s shares closed 14 % lower on Wednesday .

England cricketers face 'bio-secure' tests in nine-week break from families .
2020-05-06 13:46:44 +00:00 .
England ’s Test cricketers have been told to expect daily temperature checks , regular Covid-19 swabs and possibly nine weeks away from their families under ambitious plans to get the series against West Indies and Pakistan played .
Joe Root ’s side had their first briefing about the “ bio - secure ” measures due to be in place this summer on Tuesday and learned that a squad of up to 30 could be chosen for a run of six Tests at the Ageas Bowl and Old Trafford from 8 July .
While the plan is still fraught with hurdles and subject to guidelines for all sports being approved by central government , there is a growing belief at the England and Wales Cricket Board that the two grounds , with their on - site hotels , could see the risk of playing behind closed doors mitigated to an acceptable level .
It would require a huge commitment from the players , who would be asked to assemble at the Ageas Bowl on 23 June and may have to then stay together until the proposed third Test against Pakistan at the end of August .
After initial testing , they would spend the first week training in small groups before an inter - squad match that serves as a warm - up for the first Test against West Indies .
The enlarged squad of around 25 - 30 players for both teams would facilitate this , with the tourists playing their practice match either on one of the two pitches at the Ageas or a nearby club ground .
It will also give England scope to rotate their players during what will be a gruelling run of six Test matches in just over seven weeks – not least the fast bowlers , who will need their workloads managed – but a good number could spend this extended spell away from loved ones without actually winning a cap .
If infection rates drop nationally there is a chance the players might be permitted to return home for a few days before the first Test against Pakistan – pencilled in for 5 August – but this may still require relatives to isolate for a spell ahead of their arrival .
England are also hopeful of playing their ODI series against Ireland during this brief window at the end of July , although any movement between the two squads is also likely to be subject to some form of quarantine beforehand .
Preventing physical contact in the camp
is unrealistic given the sport ’s dynamics but the squad will still be expected to observe the social distancing instructions in place during their aborted tour of Sri Lanka in March , where handshakes were replaced by fist bumps and hygiene measures were beefed up .
As well as this there will be daily temperature checks to screen for Covid-19 symptoms and testing every few days , while physical contact with the outside world will be almost entirely cut off .
Life in the so - called “ bubble ” has been described as a scaled - up version of the PMOA , the restricted area at international matches that are policed to prevent would - be corrupters gaining access .
To this end it is understood that the skeleton staff who work at the two grounds and their adjoining hotels will operate in small groups ; should one staff member go down , colleagues who are in the same sub - team would also be taken out of circulation and placed under quarantine .
Overall it is a huge undertaking – one that looks unlikely to be replicated for domestic cricket – and remains delicately poised .
But with forecasted losses of around £ 380 m in the event of no cricket this summer , the ECB is throwing every resource possible at the project in the hope it succeeds .

What will I do when travel restrictions lift? | Adrian Chiles .
2020-05-06 12:46:47 +00:00 .
A month ago , I was worried about the places in this big wide world I might now never get to see , even if Covid-19 does n’t take me .
Then the focus narrowed to all the places , lovely and unlovely , in this country I might not visit .
And now , logically enough in this great narrowing of all our worlds , my concerns are closer to home .
I have lived in London , on and off , since coming to college in October 1987 .
My first visit was around a decade before that , with my mum and dad , when I was about 10 .
Only two things stick in my mind from that day .
One was the awesomely terrible old taxi rank below Euston station .
I had rarely seen a black cab before , let alone hundreds in one place spewing out stuff that , even then , I suspected could n’t be good for you .
The other memories I have are of the tube : the distant rumble , rumbling louder and louder , and the gentle breeze slowly stiffening into a wind as this strange - looking train exploded out of the tunnel .
It was the Piccadilly line .
I know this , because I remember vividly that the train was bound for somewhere called Cockfosters .
Four decades on , it pains me that I have yet to get to Cockfosters .
For a while now it has been on my bucket list to have got on or off a train at every single London Underground station .
The valuable lesson I have learned of late is that when you get these ideas you need to hurry up and do them , because you never know if a global pandemic is going to come along .
I have just spent a deeply soulful hour going through the list of all 270 London Underground stations .
It gives me solace that I have visited the first and last on that list : Acton Town is very close to me and Woodside Park is where my brilliant CBT practitioner plies her trade .
I tell a lie , she ’s actually nearer Totteridge and Whetstone , but I used Woodside Park once just so I could , you know , cross it off my list .
She might want a word with me about this nonsense , come to think of it .
But if I had never been to Woodside Park , I would never have come across the astoundingly photogenic little shack , Café Cairo , that sits outside .
That would have been a real shame .
I have 85 stations left to tick off my list .
This will plainly have to wait until restrictions on unnecessary travel are lifted .
What on earth would I say to someone in uniform asking me what my business was in Arnos Grove , Fairlop or Sudbury Hill ?
Naturally , it is stations towards the end of my line that I need to get to .
I am rather kicking myself that the one time I went to Upminster , I did n’t stop off at Upminster Bridge while I was in the area .
Soon .
There are a few stations I will be able to knock off quickly .
I will be down to 82 after a morning in Northwood ( Northwood and Northwood Hills ) ; 80 come late afternoon , by which time I ’ll have done Ruislip ( Ruislip , Ruislip Gardens and West Ruislip ) , and the number will reduce to 77 during an evening in Hounslow ( Central , East and West ) .
Bring it on .
Unnecessary ?
Strictly speaking , even in ordinary times , yes .
But to me , no travel is ever unnecessary .
It is with a shudder that I now recall what I used to say to anyone who asked me why I had been somewhere random : “ To go , to see , to feel , to breathe the same air as different people . ”
Breathe the same air ?
Please God , may this nightmare end soon .

Coronavirus live news: New Zealand reports one new case as Trump looks to disband Covid-19 taskforce .
2020-05-06 06:47:28 +00:00 .
In Germany , all shops will reopen and amateur outdoor sports restart under certain conditions as part of an easing of lockdown measures , the federal government and states have agreed according to a draft document .
The paper seen by Reuters was prepared by federal chancellery chief Helge Braun and the heads of the regional chancelleries for a telephone conference Chancellor Angela Merkel is due to hold with premiers of the 16 states later today .
Children play football at sunset in Obernhain near Frankfurt , Germany , Tuesday , May 5 , 2020 .
Photograph : Michael Probst / AP
Dated
May 5 , the document shows that based on infection levels , states will decide on their own about a gradual opening of universities , restaurants , bars , hotels , trade fairs , cosmetic studios , brothels , theatres , fitness studios , cinemas and discos all under certain hygiene and distancing concepts .
States will also decide on limiting contact between people , it adds .
It comes as Germany has been more successful than other large European countries in containing the virus ’ spread , with 164,807 cases and 6,996 deaths .
Though it is unclear from the document when Germany ’s top flight football league , the Bundesliga , will restart , some states want it to kick off again on May 15 .
Two people familiar with the preparations have told Reuters it is probably set to be given the green light to restart then .
The draft document says the start of matches must be preceded by two weeks of quarantine , possibly as a training camp .
In a bid to prevent a second widespread coronavirus outbreak , the federal and state governments agreed in preliminary talks that if the number of new infections rises after restrictions on public life are eased , local restrictions should be reintroduced immediately .
The plan is for this threshold to be set at “ more than 50 new infections per 100,000 inhabitants within the last seven days ” in districts .
If there is a limited outbreak , such as in a nursing home , restrictions might only be applied there , the paper showed .
“ If there is a dispersed regional outbreak and infection chains are unclear , general restrictions , such as those in force in Germany before 20 April , must be consistently reintroduced regionally , ” the paper says .
This would include restricting travel to and from these regions , it added .

Sicily to subsidise post-Covid holidays as Italy ponders reopening to tourists .
2020-05-05 16:58:56 +00:00 .
Sicily ’s regional government is offering to subsidise holidays on the island for both domestic and international visitors in an effort to kickstart tourism after the coronavirus pandemic .
News of the scheme came days before a statement from the Italian government that it expects borders to be open to tourists this summer .
A financial pot of € 75 m of regional government money has been set aside to boost tourism following huge financial losses after the lockdown came into effect across Italy on 10 March .
Current plans include subsidising visitors ’ accommodation costs , offering one night of a three - night trip for free , or two nights of a six - day trip , as well as vouchers for cultural and heritage activities .
The plans were detailed in an interview with Sicily ’s tourism director , Manlio Messina , on Italian news show Mattino Cinque .
There have been reports that the funding may also be used towards paying for up to half of the cost of flights , but this has not yet been confirmed .
Once the lockdown restrictions have been successfully eased further ( without a rise in coronavirus cases ) , more information on how to take advantage of the offers will be posted on the Sicilian tourist board website .
Meanwhile , quashing what he called “ fake news ” reports that Italy may be closed to holidaymakers for the rest of 2020 , Dario Franceschini , Italy ’s culture and tourism minister , told newspaper Il Messaggero : “ I have never talked or ever thought of closing Italian borders to tourists for 2020 .
I am working towards the complete opposite , and proposed yesterday at a meeting of EU tourism minsters as uniform approach to managing infection risks .
We are also starting bilateral talks with other countries that send a lot of tourists to Italy . ”
Tourism revenue fell by 95 % in Italy in March , according to banking group UBS , and the national tourism agency is forecasting a € 20bn drop in tourist spending for this year compared with last .
This week Italy entered phase two of its lockdown , including the reopening of parks , and restaurants for takeaway meals .
Some shops , museums and cultural venues are due to reopen on 18 May , and there is much discussion about managing social distancing on beaches and creating space for more outdoor tables at restaurants .
Although he ruled out closing the border , Franceschini added a note of realism : “ I imagine , unfortunately , that international tourism will drop sharply this summer – both incoming and outgoing .
So we are making a strong investment in domestic tourism , because this will be a summer of holidays in Italy … You have to adopt the right balance between safeguarding health and restarting economic and social life .
It must be done with the utmost care .
We ’re moving one step at a time . ”

West End theatres extend shutdown caused by coronavirus .
2020-05-05 13:19:28 +00:00 .
West End theatres will remain closed until at least 28 June , the Society of London Theatres ( Solt ) announced on Tuesday .
The organisation has been cancelling performances across the West End on a rolling basis , in line with the latest advice from the government during the Covid-19 lockdown .
Those cancellations have now been extended from 31 May to 28 June .
“ This does not mean theatres will reopen on 29 June , ” Solt stressed in its statement .
“ If further cancellations are necessary they will continue to be announced on a rolling basis . ”
The postponement of Sunday in the Park With George , starring Jake Gyllenhaal and Annaleigh Ashford , was also announced on Tuesday .
The revival of the musical by Stephen Sondheim and James Lapine was due to begin a 12 - week run on 11 June .
It is now slated to run at the Savoy theatre next year , with details to be confirmed .
Gyllenhaal said : “ We are , of course , disappointed to postpone our upcoming season , but know that safety is a top priority and science must lead the way .
London ’s West End is incredibly special to me , and it will be an absolute honour to return to the stage so we can eventually share Sunday in the Park With George with audiences in 2021 . ”
Usually in a regular week , about 300,000 people visit West End theatres .
Solt said it was a major undertaking to process refunds , exchanges and credit notes , particularly when many staff are working remotely , adding : “ Please rest assured that we are all working as quickly as we can and we appreciate the ongoing support of our audiences . ”
Theatre producer Sir Cameron Mackintosh has said West End theatres are unlikely to be able to reopen until next year .
“ For major producers [ on ] both sides of the Atlantic , the truth is until social distancing does n’t exist any more , we ca n’t even plan to reopen , ” he said .
“ If we do n’t hear [ about lockdowns lifting ] in a few weeks , we wo n’t be able to come back until early next year .
I think that ’s quite clear . ”

Young people: how European do you feel? .
2020-05-05 10:31:16 +00:00 .
The coronavirus pandemic has hit Europe hard and strained cooperation and solidarity between European countries .
Some of that cooperation began with the end of the second world war in May 1945 .
Back then , European nations had to rebuild after years of catastrophic conflict , loss and economic collapse .
Now 75 years on , as Europe tries to recover and rebuild once more , we ’d like to hear from younger people all over the continent .
How European do you feel ?
Does the second world war hold any lessons for your generation ?
Have you personally benefited from European cooperation , for an example an Erasmus scheme , a job or similar ?
Does the return of nationalism worry you ?
Has the pandemic made you feel more hopeful or pessimistic about the idea of Europeans working together to resolve issues we all face such as healthcare or the climate crisis ?
You can get in touch by filling in the form below .
Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions .
One of our journalists will be in contact for publication before we publish , so please do leave contact details .
If you ’re having trouble using the form , click here .
Read terms of service here .

UK coronavirus death toll rises above 32,000 to highest in Europe .
2020-05-05 09:56:45 +00:00 .
The UK now has the highest death toll in Europe from coronavirus after new official figures revealed that more than 32,000 people have died from the virus .
The Office for National Statistics said 29,648 deaths had taken place by 27 April in England and Wales with Covid-19 mentioned in death certificates .
With the addition of deaths in Scotland and Northern Ireland , this takes the UK ’s death toll to 32,313 , according to calculations by Reuters .
This figure far exceeds the death toll of 29,029 in Italy – until now Europe ’s worst - hit country .
Italy ’s total does not include suspected cases .
Ministers and experts have warned against international comparisons , saying the figure for excess mortality – the number of deaths from all causes that exceed the average for the time of year – is a more meaningful gauge .
The latest ONS figures for the week ending 24 April show there were 21,997 deaths , which is 11,539 more than the average for that week .
But the total weekly death toll dipped slightly by 354 death .
This was the first decrease in weekly deaths since the start of the outbreak and confirms other figures showing the UK is past the peak of infections .
The figures also show that while hospital deaths increased at a slower rate in the week ending 24 April than the previous week , deaths in care homes continued to increase by 595 to 7,911 .
For the first time last week , the government began including data on deaths outside hospitals in cases where people had tested positive for coronavirus , in the daily death toll figures for the virus .
By contrast the ONS figures include all deaths where Covid-19 is mentioned on death certificates .
Italy quickly became a centre of the coronavirus outbreak in Europe , with the first deaths in late February , and was the first European country to move into lockdown .
As the death toll rose , so too did the number of articles unpicking what went wrong .
Italy ’s large ageing population , culture of close social interactions and densely populated cities , as well as a lack of time to prepare and a slow initial response to the virus are among the reasons cited as why the country was so badly hit .
The UK , it was said , should learn from Italy .
But now , it seems , it could be as badly struck .

Luton brothers die of coronavirus within a week of each other .
2020-05-05 09:31:38 +00:00 .
Ida Ivowi ’s three younger brothers who live in Luton had all fallen ill from the coronavirus in April .
She was in shock when one brother had died within hours of being admitted to hospital and tried to come up with a plan of telling her youngest , who has Down ’s syndrome , of the death .
But just over a week later , he too would die from the virus .
Ivowi , who lives in New York , first saw the coronavirus pandemic as a distant international news story .
But within a few weeks , she watched from across the Atlantic as the deadly virus wreaked havoc on her loved ones .
Olume Ivowi , 46 , from Luton , died on 10 April , Good Friday , in Luton and Dunstable University hospital within hours of being taken by an ambulance .
Ida said she simply could n’t understand when she got the phone call that her brother died .
“ It was very difficult for any of us to wrap our heads around it .
He went from being fine to now being dead , ” she said .
“ We then started the process of grieving . ”
Olume left behind his devastated wife , Juanetta Ivowi , and their daughter , Mireille , 3 .
Ida would spend the next 24 hours talking to her sister - in - law , while contemplating how to tell her younger brother , Isi Ivowi , 38 , who lived in supported accommodation in Milton Keynes and was incredibly close to Olume .
“ We did not want to give him such news over the phone , ” Ida said , but as she figured out how to tell him the news , she got a call from his carers that Isi had fallen ill and had been hospitalised .
She was getting regular updates from the hospital on her brother ’s prognosis , but the virus had taken its toll .
Isi died on 19 April in Milton Keynes University hospital – just over a week after his older brother .
The family believe the two brothers , who have underlying health conditions , may have contracted Covid-19 from one another as Olume was in constant contact with his younger brother .
A third brother , Osi Ivowi , 50 , from Milton Keynes , would be the only sibling to fall ill from the deadly virus and survive .
The entire family has been hit particularly hard by the coronavirus pandemic , with two other extended members of the family also contracting the virus .
Ida said her brothers have always been close with her and each other .
They spend Christmas together and go on holidays throughout the year .
She described Olume as a loving father who brought everybody together .
“ He was somebody who like to unify people . ”
She said Isi was a caring person who loved music .
“ When my brother went in to hospital , he took in his radio because he likes music , and his phone so that we could get to speak to him . ”
At times , Ida feels like she is in an alternative universe .
She adds it ’s impossible to go through something like this without feeling fearful .
“ So now it ’s trying to get over that personal fear because you know what this virus is capable of doing . ”
She called for people in both the UK and US to continue following the guidelines around the lockdown .
Ida is , however , determined to celebrate the lives of her brothers and focus on moving forward together as a family .
“ It was my birthday this week and we all met up online to remember our lost ones and support Olume ’s widow but we also think it ’s important to celebrate life in the now .
“ What has happened to us , demonstrates how fragile life is and how we have to remember to appreciate each other and find the joy in every day because we never know what is around the corner . ”

Non-NHS healthcare staff had less access to Covid-19 tests – study .
2020-05-03 23:16:45 +00:00 .
Healthcare staff working outside the NHS or on temporary contracts have had less access to coronavirus tests , a survey suggests .
The Royal College of Nursing ( RCN ) UK - wide survey of more than 22,000 health and care workers was conducted over the weekend before the government ’s announcement of testing expansion .
At that time , 76 % of all those surveyed said they had not been offered a test .
Of those , 44 % said they did not know how to access testing .
The RCN also found more than four in five temporary staff had not been offered Covid-19 testing , compared to three - quarters of permanent staff .
The survey found 79 % of those working outside of the NHS had not been offered a test , compared with 75 % in the health service .
It found that in care homes and prisons , about 50 % did not know how to access tests .
With temporary staff , this figure was 60 % .
Of the staff who were offered testing , 90 % were able to access it .
Dame Donna Kinnair , chief executive and general secretary of the RCN , said : “ It is concerning to see that some nursing staff , particularly those outside the NHS , are still having issues accessing Covid-19 testing .
“ We know that additional measures have been recently put in place to improve access to testing and will monitor the situation closely .
“ All health and care staff must be able to access testing so they can work safely and without worry .
“ This is essential given existing workforce shortages across all health and care settings . ”
The UK - wide survey was open from 24 April to 28 April .
In a bid to reach its target of 100,000 tests a day , the government dramatically expanded the list of people who are eligible for coronavirus tests in England on 28 April .

MPs press for sanctions against Israel over West Bank annexations .
2020-05-01 16:03:49 +00:00 .
Nearly 130 parliamentarians , including former Conservative cabinet ministers , have written to Boris Johnson urging him to impose economic sanctions against Israel if Benjamin Netanyahu ’s new coalition government goes ahead with its threat to annex parts of the West Bank .
The letter , signed by the former Tory chairman Lord Patten and the former international development secretary Andrew Mitchell , says annexation would be clearly illegal under international law .
The signatories , which also include diplomats and prominent campaigners against antisemitism in the Labour party such as Margaret Hodge , point out that the UK did not hesitate to sanction Russia after the annexation of Crimea , claiming any move in the West Bank would warrant a similar response .
Netanyahu has negotiated a right to annex parts of the West Bank from 1 July in the coalition deal he signed with Benny Gantz ’s Kahol Lavan party , but he is thought to be waiting for approval from the Trump administration before deciding his next move .
Trump wants annexation to be seen to be integrated into the peace plan set out by his son - in - law , Jared Kushner , last year .
Britain joined a diplomatic démarche by 10 EU diplomats in a Zoom call this week warning the Israeli foreign ministry against annexation , but the imposition of sanctions as opposed to condemnation would be unprecedented .
In the letter , organised by the Council for Arab British Understanding ( Caabu ) , the signatories express outrage at the new Israeli government ’s declared plan to annex areas of territories it occupied in June 1967 , describing the move “ as a mortal blow to the chances of peace between Israelis and Palestinians based on any viable two - state solution ” .
They claim it is clear the Israeli government is using “ the cover of the Covid-19 pandemic to seek to implement this egregious plan .
It is vital that the UK does everything in its power to prevent this . ”
They argue “ international law is crystal clear .
The acquisition of territory through war is prohibited .
The Russian annexation of Crimea in 2014 is a recent example where Britain quite properly opposed such acts with appropriate measures , including robust sanctions .
“ Our government has stated that any annexation ‘ can not go unchallenged .
The government must now make clear publicly to Israel that any annexation will have severe consequences including sanctions .
Words are not enough : Prime Minister Netanyahu has ignored our words .
We need to prevent his government from setting this alarmingly dangerous precedent in international relations . ”
In a joint statement in September last year by the UK government , together with France , Germany , Italy and Spain , the UK warned any unilateral annexation of any part of the West Bank would be “ a serious breach of international law ” .
David Jones , the chair of Caabu , said he regretfully thought Netanyahu would only listen to threats .
Crispin Blunt , one of the signatories and the former chair of the foreign affairs select committee , said the issue was a massive test for the UK that he hoped his country would pass .
He said he hoped Britain would take a stand by saying international law does stand for something , and bullying does not pay .
Two Labour frontbenchers , Stephen Kinnock and Seema Malhotra ,
have signed the letter in a personal capacity , while the shadow foreign secretary , Lisa Nandy , has already written to the foreign secretary , Dominic Raab , asking him to oppose annexation .
The Israeli embassy has been contacted for comment .

Artists campaign against Bristol Spike Island eviction of Howard Silverman .
2020-05-01 10:52:34 +00:00 .
A founding father of one of Europe ’s largest artist studio complexes has expressed grief , anger and a sense of betrayal after being told he must leave the community he helped create almost half a century ago .
The contemporary artist Howard Silverman , 73 , said his part in the development of Spike Island in Bristol had been his life ’s work , and being given notice to vacate the studio he considered his spiritual home had devastated him .
Fellow studio holders and artists from around the world are backing Silverman ’s fight to overturn the decision , with some suggesting the organisation is intent on squeezing out older , established tenants in favour of younger ones .
The New York - born Silverman , regarded as a cornerstone of the Bristol art scene , said : “ I wake up in the morning stressed and depressed .
It affects family , friends and colleagues . ”
Silverman , whose award - winning work includes installation , sculpture , painting , printmaking , video and digital imagery , is angry that , after spending 46 years at Spike Island and its predecessor organisation , the panel considering his bid to renew his lease had just 20 minutes to study it before debating and then making its decision .
He is also distressed that after his appeal was rejected he was served three months ’ notice to vacate during the first days of the Covid-19 lockdown , which would have made packing up and leaving even more difficult .
“ My studio is my spiritual home , ” he said .
“ It has always been my laboratory and my launch pad .
I will be lost without it . ”
Spike Island is the base for more than 70 artists , dozens of creative businesses and hundreds of fine art students .
It began in the 1970s as Artspace Bristol , founded by Silverman and a group of other idealistic , radical artists who sought out and administered affordable studio spaces in old industrial buildings .
In 1992 the organisation moved to its current home , a former tea - packing warehouse and rebranded as Spike Island .
A trust was set up and last year introduced a system of lease reviews .
Half of the six artists who have so far reapplied for their leases have been told they must leave .
The Spike Island artist Julian Claxton said the decision to evict Silverman was outrageous .
He said Silverman remained a “ cutting edge ” artist but always had time to encourage and help others .
Another artist aid he was the life and soul of the community , while a third said it was a “ mystery ” why he was being evicted .
Within 48 hours , more than 500 people including artists from all around the world had signed a petition protesting .
A spokesman for Spike Island refused to speak about an individual case , but denied it was favouring younger artists .
He said : “ The studio review process is a way to ensure that our artists ’ studios are managed fairly .
Our [ studios ] must be inclusive and accessible to all in order to support local artists from different backgrounds and at different career stages . ”
The Guardian has seen a letter dated 26 March – after the coronavirus lockdown – from Spike Island giving Silverman three months to leave from that day – which would have involved planning the move during physical distancing .
After he objected , Spike Island said the three months ’ notice would begin after lockdown was lifted .
The spokesman said Spike Island was being “ incredibly flexible ” with artists who were being told to leave .
He confirmed the review panel members were given 20 minutes to read submissions from tenants , adding : “ An extensive period of discussion then follows . ”

More than 3,000 extra officers join police as part of Johnson pledge .
2020-04-30 12:46:56 +00:00 .
More than 3,000 additional officers have joined police forces as part of the recruitment pledge made by Boris Johnson during his Tory leadership campaign , figures have shown .
Johnson promised to recruit 20,000 officers , a figure , many noted , was roughly the same as the number lost during 10 years of austerity under the Conservatives .
Following his win , the government in September set out plans to recruit 20,000 additional officers by March 2023 .
On Thursday , the Home Office published the first official set of statistics on progress towards reaching that target .
They show 3,005 recruits joined specifically as part of the government ’s uplift programme .
In total , forces recruited 6,435 officers from November 2019 to March 2020 , including recruitment planned before the programme was announced .
There are now a total of 131,596 officers , a 5 % increase on March 2019 .
The home secretary , Priti Patel , said : “ Each one of these brave officers will make a difference in helping to cut crime and keep people safe .
For many , their first role has been to join the fight to stop the spread of coronavirus , protect the NHS and save lives . ”
The College of Policing , the professional standards body for the police in England and Wales , has announced it is opening new online assessment centres to keep recruitment going during the coronavirus outbreak .
The body ’s chief executive , Mike Cunningham , said : “ The recruitment figures released today are extremely encouraging and demonstrate the scale and breadth of the positive work that has been undertaken so far to increase police officer numbers . ”
Figures from the National Police Chiefs ’ Council ( NPCC ) showed that overall crime fell by 28 % in the first few weeks of the coronavirus outbreak .
One of the key planks of Johnson ’s leadership campaign last summer was tough talk on crime and policing which critics dismissed as populist electioneering .
Alongside the recruitment pledge , the government has promised increased funding to provide more than 8,000 extra officers with stun guns and expanded stop - and - search powers .

Tui cancels beach holidays until June amid coronavirus crisis .
2020-04-30 11:42:48 +00:00 .
Almost 1 million holidaymakers who were due to travel with Tui have had their trips cancelled after the company announced a fresh round of suspensions in response to the coronavirus crisis .
The UK ’s biggest tour operator , which specialises in package breaks , said it was no longer able to offer beach holidays that involved travelling on or before 11 June .
Cruises later in the year are also affected after the company postponed the launch of Tui River Cruises until 26 November .
Tui had previously been forced to cancel holidays booked to take place before 14 May.
It said the disruptions had affected a total of 900,000 people .
The latest cancellations , which follow government advice against all but essential travel , affect 143,000 bookings and 400,000 holidaymakers .
Customers will be sent a credit note in the first instance but can claim a refund if they do not want to reschedule .
Those who opt for the credit note will receive an extra 20 % to spend on a trip and have until 31 October 2021 to use the voucher .
Travel firms have been coming under fire for their response to cancellations with many customers having problems getting their money back .
Up to £ 7bn could be owed for cancelled trips , and some companies appear to be stalling refunds .
Last week Ryanair backtracked on its promise to process refunds within 20 working days and told customers they would now have to wait until the Covid-19 emergency has passed .
The consumer group Which ? said 20 of the UK ’s largest travel operators and airlines were breaking the law by not returning money to customers within 14 days .
Rory Boland , the editor of Which ?
Travel , said : “ Tui ’s decision should allow customers who may be under financial pressure to start the process of getting their money back – but the company must ensure it is making the refund process as straightforward as possible , rather than pushing vouchers or credit notes . ”
Tui said it was taking about 28 days to process refunds .
Customers whose holidays were scheduled to take place between 12 June and 11 July could move their booking to another date for free , it added .
“ Rolling cancellations have been put in place to ensure customer service teams can support those impacted by the cancellations in date order , ” the company said .
“ We would like to thank customers for their patience and understanding , especially given the scale of people we are trying to help . ”

Hospital investigates death of NHS doctor who pleaded for PPE .
2020-04-29 16:54:18 +00:00 .
A hospital has launched an investigation into the death of one of its doctors from Covid-19 shortly after he pleaded in vain for him and his colleagues to be given protective equipment .
The Royal Berkshire NHS trust has begun a serious incident investigation after Dr Peter Tun , who specialised in helping patients with brain conditions recover , died on 13 April .
Using emails shared by his son Michael , the Guardian revealed last week how Tun asked managers at the hospital in Reading on 23 March to ensure he and his team had personal protective equipment ( PPE ) to reduce the risk of being infected with coronavirus .
His appeals were rebuffed because he did not have any suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19 on his unit .
His death has generated substantial publicity with both Tun ’s brother Ye Myint – an NHS consultant – and Michael criticising the trust ’s failure to provide PPE , amid a dispute over whether it was correctly applying the guidance on protective kit .
Michael said last week : “ When a doctor of 40 years ’ experience has had to literally beg for surgical masks , and it is denied , something has gone seriously wrong .
I think that my dad ’s death was avoidable and that that probability would have been reduced if he had had proper personal protective equipment . ”
The inquiry is being undertaken by a group of senior doctors and managers at the Reading hospital , which has informed the family of the investigation and offered its condolences .
A spokesperson for the trust said : “ We can confirm a serious incident investigation has been launched .
It involves senior managers and clinicians who are working closely with Dr Tun ’s family to look at their concerns and answer their questions .
Whilst this is ongoing , we are unable to say any more . ”
A source at the hospital said : “ We need to get to the bottom of this .
Peter was the first member of staff that we have lost .
That , plus the nature of his death , means it ’s important to do this properly , so that his family get what they need to hear . ”
However , it is unclear whether the investigation will look at the availability of PPE within the hospital or just the trust ’s application of Public Health England ’s ( PHE )
guidelines on PPE at the time Tun sent the emails .
They were strengthened soon after .
One member of staff with knowledge of the inquiry said : “ It will look at the guidance around PPE at the time .
But it wo n’t look at the supply of PPE in the trust at the time . ”
The trust is also considering whether it may have to report Tun ’s death to the Health and Safety Executive to look into whether it involved any breaches of an employer ’s duty to protect their staff .
An official from the office of the coroner for Berkshire has also contacted Michael Tun , raising the possibility that the events surrounding the death will be explored in a public forum .
Dr Claudia Paoloni , the president of the Hospital Consultants and Specialists Association , said : “ It ’s very sad that Dr Tun has died after requesting PPE .
It highlights the need for all healthcare workers in all healthcare settings to have PPE at all times , to keep healthcare workers safe .
“ At the time Dr Tun sent his emails , various medical royal colleges and the HCSA were raising concerns with PHE about the weaknesses with its guidance on PPE . ”

Elon Musk tweets protest against US coronavirus lockdown .
2020-04-29 13:33:03 +00:00 .
Elon Musk , the multibillionaire founder and chief executive of electric car company Tesla , has joined those protesting against the coronavirus lockdown of the US economy , tweeting : “ FREE AMERICA NOW ” .
His outburst came as he was close to securing a $ 750 m ( £ 585 m ) payout from a bonus scheme linked to Tesla ’s share price .
Musk , the world ’s 22nd - richest person with an estimated $ 38.5bn ( £ 30.5bn ) fortune ,
on Wednesday tweeted : “ Give people their freedom back ! ” with a link to a Wall Street Journal article suggesting that the lockdowns have not saved that many lives but have shattered local economies .
He also tweeted : “ Bravo Texas ! ”
with a link to a local newspaper story about the Texas governor Greg Abbott ’s plans to allow shops , restaurants and movie theatres to reopen from Friday .
Musk , who has a history of tweeting controversial statements , later clarified that he did not think all shops and businesses should be reopened immediately .
Replying to another user on Twitter
he said : “ Yes , reopen with care & appropriate protection , but do n’t everyone under de facto house arrest ” .
His outburst came a day after Tesla was forced to delay the planned reopening of its electric car factory in Fremont , California , after six Bay Area counties extended the lockdown until the end of May. Tesla had been planning on reopening the factory on 4 May , when the lockdown order was supposed to be lifted .
The factory has been shut since 23 March .
Despite the closure , Telsa ’s share price has recovered nearly all of the slump caused by the coronavirus outbreak .
The rebound in the shares to $ 769 on Tuesday , from a low of $ 361 on 18 March , puts Musk close to achieving a $ 720 m payday .
The rally in the share price puts Tesla ’s market capitalisation at $ 141bn ; the company has reached a six - month average valuation of $ 96bn .
If the market cap achieves a six - month average of $ 100bn it would trigger the vesting of the first of 12 tranches of share options granted to Musk .
Each tranche gives Musk the option to buy 1.69 m Tesla shares at $ 350.02 each .
If Musk sold those shares at Tuesday ’s closing price of $ 769 he could make a profit of about $ 750 m. Musk ’s paper fortune has risen by more than $ 10bn so far this year .

Ford set to restart main European car factories on Monday 4 May .
2020-04-28 17:13:18 +00:00 .
Ford on Tuesday said it would restart its main European car factories on Monday 4 May , but its UK plants in Dagenham and Bridgend will stay closed until later in the spring .
The US car giant , which closed its European and north American factories at the height of the coronavirus pandemic in mid - March , said production would begin slowly with strict standards on social distancing and safety precautions .
“ We need to prepare for a new environment once we are past the initial peak of the coronavirus pandemic in Europe , with the key priority in our ‘ return to work ’ plan being the implementation of Ford ’s global standards on social distancing and strengthened health and safety protocols , ” said Stuart Rowley , president of Ford of Europe .
Ford factories in Saarlouis and Cologne in Germany , Valencia in Spain and Craiova in Romania , will reopen on Monday .
Its engine plant in Valencia will open on 18 May. Ford said its plants in Dagenham , Kent , and Bridgend , Wales , would resume at “ a later date ” .
It is understood that this is likely to be later in May.
About 2,200 people normally work at the Dagenham plant , and 1,200 people at the Bridgend factory .
Most have been placed on the government ’s furlough scheme , with wages topped up to their base salaries by Ford .
Safety measures include mandatory face masks , which the company will produce itself to “ reduce demand on stretched supply chains for personal protection equipment also needed by medical services and other industries ” .
Work stations have been redesigned to ensure employees will be able to work at a distance from colleagues .
All people entering Ford factories will have to have their body temperature checked and employees will also be required to fill out daily wellness self - assessment forms .
“ This is an unprecedented time for our business , but it is bringing out the very best in our people at Ford , so many of whom are engaged in supporting their communities in a multitude of actions across Europe , ” Rowley said .
Jaguar Land Rover , the UK ’s biggest carmaker , plans to gradually reopen some factories on 18 May.
The company ’s Solihull plant , which employs 9,000 workers making its Range Rover models , will reopen with a quarter of its workers at first , alongside SUV plants in Slovakia and Austria .
Vauxhall said it was ready to reopen its Ellesmere Port site south of the Wirral after setting out socially distanced production lines , break areas and restrooms .
Aston Martin Lagonda said it would reopen its factory in St Athan , south Wales , on 5 May with new safety measures similar to those planned by Vauxhall .
Japan ’s Nissan warned on Tuesday that it it faces an annual loss of as much as 95bn yen ( £ 700 m ) – it ’s first full - year loss since the 2008 financial crisis .

Germans urged to stay home amid Covid-19 infection rate fears .
2020-04-28 16:49:48 +00:00 .
Germans have been advised to stay at home as much as possible and continue to apply physical distancing as official data appeared to indicate the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic was once again accelerating .
The basic reproduction number ( R ) , indicating how many new cases one infected person generates on average
, has come to be seen as the key indicator over whether restrictions on public life can be loosened after Angela Merkel stressed the importance of keeping the number below one .
On Tuesday , the German government ’s disease control agency , the Robert Koch Institute ( RKI ) , announced the reproduction number for Monday 27 April had risen to 1 , after having put it as low as 0.7 in mid - April .
Lothar Wieler , the RKI ’s president , later specified that the reproduction rate for Monday was 0.96 , and there technically still below one .
Scientists believe the basic reproduction rate of Covid-19 , R0 , to lie somewhere between 2.4 and 3.3 .
Without measures taken to curb the spread of the virus , the rate of new infections would grow exponentially , until about 70 % of the population has been infected .
Wieler appealed to the German public to “ preserve our success ” of having prevented health services from being overwhelmed , by continuing to apply physical distancing even though federal authorities have already begun to relax restrictions on social movement .
“ Let us continue to stay at home as much as possible , keep observing the restrictions and keep a distance of 1.5 metres from one another , ” Wieler said .
The medical expert also warned of pinning too many expectations on a single indicator , however , saying that “ R is only one index among many ” .
As German politicians are increasingly divided over the speed at which social distancing measures should be relaxed , the negative news of the rising reproduction number had sown some confusion , especially with latest official data also showing new cases of confirmed infections with Covid-19 dropping below 1,000 cases for the first time in almost seven weeks .
Other scientific institutions studying the spread of the pandemic in Germany question whether the downward trend of recent weeks has in fact been reversed , as the RKI ’s numbers suggest .
In theory , the reproduction number is calculated by dividing the number of new infections by a weighted number of infectious people .
In practice , perfectly accurate numbers on both of these counts are impossible to ascertain and even available data on new infections is compiled with a lag of a few days .
The reproduction number is thus always an estimate .
For its own estimate of the reproduction number , the attempts to take into account the time lag by ignoring data from the last three days and back - dating known cases to their likely day of infection around a week earlier .
The reproduction number announced on Tuesday can therefore only give an indication of the pandemic ’s development at a point about a week and a half ago , when a relaxation of social distancing measures had been announced by Angela Merkel but not yet come into effect .
Alternative models for estimating the reproduction number have been developed by the Technische Universität Ilmenau , in the eastern state of Thuringia , and the Helmholtz Centre for Infections Research in Braunschweig .
Statistician Thomas Hotz , of Ilmenau University , said the model used by the RKI had a tendency to “ smoothen out ” the number of new infections by the method in which it tried to correct for the reporting delay .
Hotz said his own model did not indicate a sudden rise of new infections , and that he believed the reproduction number was likely to stay below one in the next few days .

UK contact-tracing plans: an NHS app and an army of health staff .
2020-04-28 14:26:22 +00:00 .
The NHS CV19 app will enable the public to report their symptoms and order a swab test online if available .
The NHS has chosen to go with its own model rather than one proposed by Apple and Google , and hopes it will be ready in two to three weeks , though the timetable for rollout is unclear .
Once someone installs the app , it will start logging the distance between the user ’s phone and others nearby that also have the app installed , using Bluetooth Low Energy .
This anonymous log of how close they are to others will be stored securely on their phone .
If they become unwell with symptoms of Covid-19 , they can choose to let the app inform the NHS .
That will trigger an anonymous alert to other app users with whom they spent time over the previous few days .
Those users will get an alert telling them they have been close to someone with the virus .
It may advise them to self - isolate .
Although Matt Hancock , the UK health secretary , claims we are on track for 100,000 tests a day by Thursday , the latest figures for 26 April show only 37,000 tests carried out .
There is no plan to test all contacts of people who have the virus .
Prof Neil Ferguson ’s modelling team at the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis said in their latest report on 23 April that “ testing of contacts would require substantial test numbers and significant investment of laboratory and staff resources ” .
There were 15,000 calls from people reporting potential Covid-19 symptoms every day to the NHS 111 helpline between 18 March and 16 April .
Testing them and three contacts each , assuming a low number because of the lockdown , would require 60,000 tests to be done every day .
So they are all likely to be told to self - isolate without testing .
Hancock has talked of recruiting 18,000 contact tracers , but the scheme is still evolving , with input from regional directors of public health .
Of these , the government has proposed 15,000 should be call handlers , so only 3,000 would be trained public health staff including environmental health officers and probably sexual health staff with experience of contact tracing and knowledge of their communities .
In early April , the government was accused of missing an opportunity after it failed to deploy 5,000 experienced contact tracing experts employed by councils to help limit the spread of coronavirus .
According to the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health , the UK has at least 5,000 environmental health officers working in local councils nationwide but Public Health England said at the time it would use its own local health protection teams .

Football must not restart until strain on NHS eases, says Watford chairman .
2020-04-27 18:38:50 +00:00 .
The Watford chairman and CEO , Scott Duxbury , has said that a resumption of top - level football in England should be off the agenda until the burden on the NHS has become less severe , adding that he does not think “ football is important at the moment ” .
Before the meeting of Premier League executives scheduled for Friday , and with the Bundesliga lined up to be the first major league to restart after a coronavirus lockdown , Duxbury said : “ I feel uncomfortable at this stage even talking about football because there are people dying every day , there are stresses on the NHS , and that has to be the priority .
“ Do I want to resume football ?
Absolutely , and when it ’s safe and the government says it ’s fine and all the players and support staff that follow football can return , then I ’m 100 % behind that .
But at the moment I feel all efforts have to be on beating the pandemic and supporting the NHS . ”
During the lockdown Watford have opened their stadium up to staff from neighbouring Watford general hospital , as well as those from hospitals in Hemel Hempstead and St Albans .
Executive boxes , including the one leased by the captain , Troy Deeney , have been converted into bedrooms for NHS staff isolating from family members , meeting rooms have been made available , and the club are cleaning 10,000 pairs of scrubs and providing 1,000 free meals a day .
They are also in the process of converting a separate part of the stadium to host antenatal and postnatal appointments , which will open on Wednesday .
Watford are owned by the same family that controls the northern Italian club Udinese , with the two teams also sharing some scouting and administrative staff .
Duxbury said : “ I have a lot of friends , a lot of colleagues in Italy , some of whom unfortunately have died because of this and I think it does bring home how serious this situation is .
“ I ’m not trying to be disrespectful when I say I do n’t think football is important at the moment .
This is the fight that ’s important , the support that we ’re providing is important .
Of course we have to get back to normality , of course football plays a huge part in that , but at the moment the world finds itself in an awful situation , and this is where our focus needs to be . ”
Earlier this month Watford general hospital declared a critical incident as their oxygen supplies dwindled , but though that particular crisis is over they remain severely stretched .
“ It ’s been fantastic , ” said Theresa Maunganidze , a surgical specialist nurse who has been working with Covid-19 patients , who was among those using the facilities in a busy Lower Graham Taylor stand on Monday lunchtime .
“ We ’re in PPE most of the time , seeing difficult situations the type of which we ’ve never seen before .
Having that break , to come out for fresh air , to come to a place that ’s not a hospital , to chat and laugh and share experiences and reflect on the day , it ’s been amazing .
“ As nurses we ’re there to care for patients and see them get better
but when you know people are dying no matter how much you try to help them , it is daunting .
But most importantly we are the ones who are there for the patients in their last days .
There are no relatives around .
It is intense and emotionally draining . ”
The club ’s Sir Elton John suite has been repurposed as an area for meetings and training , and Duxbury has been in touch with former owner during the current situation .
“ He ’s aware of what we ’re doing and he ’s very proud of the football club .
For him to see those those values that he and Graham set are very much alive and well , it ’s something that he and we all should be very proud of . ”

The 'zoom parliament' could inspire a more democratic Commons | Richard Power Sayeed .
2020-04-26 16:12:54 +00:00 .
Émile Durkheim argued that traditions , along with other social institutions , exist because they do some kind of job for society as a whole .
Accordingly , in parliament , the dress codes for MPs , the ermine , the gilded this and that , the bobbing and the bowing , are all said to encourage both lawmakers and citizens to take what happens in Westminster seriously .
If you watch a standard prime minister ’s questions , which for centuries has been dominated by a baying mob of former public school boys , you might get the feeling that traditions are n’t always collectively beneficial .
But our new and decidedly untraditional “ Zoom parliament ” has transformed the Commons .
While MPs are still required to wear appropriate clothing and some politicians have decorated their webcam backdrops with their own fancy accessories , remote working has largely stripped parliament of its customs and costumes .
We have been confronted with the bare bones of our representative system , and the result has been overwhelmingly positive .
Wednesday ’s PMQs was like never before .
No facile insults were screamed .
There was no sonic wall of jeering .
There were only a handful of MPs in the chamber , and those joining online were muted by the clerks until it was their turn to ask a question .
Consequently , with the exception of some quiet “ Hear hears ” , almost no one spoke until they were invited to by the Speaker , Lindsay Hoyle .
This week our semi - digital Commons looked , for the first time in a long while , like the epicentre of a grownup democracy , sensible and pleasingly boring .
As for the rest of parliamentary business : select committees , ministerial statements , debates and questions from MPs are now all taking place online .
Votes have been postponed for the moment , and plans for a digital system are being developed , so that the whips wo n’t have to force hundreds of MPs and peers , some of them potentially infectious with Covid-19 , into the lobbies .
Parliament ’s old guard are n’t wrong to worry that a working - from - home parliament will lack some creative spontaneity as MPs are unable to take ministers to task with off - the - cuff questions .
But look at these reforms from the perspective of people for whom evenings and days spent away from home are unrealistic .
The ability to work remotely may open up a career in politics to a more diverse cohort of MPs .
We ’ll need more reform than this – allowing MPs to take parental leave is particularly key – but more remote working is a start .
We want MPs to be able to see their families , sending a signal that a better work / life balance is key to a happier society .
And we want MPs to spend time in their communities , because we need them to represent the interests of people who have too often been ignored by politics .
In that case , the benefits of making parliament accessible surely outweigh the costs .
These changes have civilised the Commons and have the potential to make British politics more democratic and representative .
But if all this is not to be swept away when lockdown eventually ends , then modernising MPs and Hoyle must make many aspects of the “ Zoom parliament ” permanent .
We ’ll be waiting a long time for some reforms , like an elected second chamber and a more egalitarian party system that suppresses Westminster ’s bullying culture .
But there ’s plenty to do in the meantime .
Durkheim was wrong .
Traditions exist not because they benefit society , but because they benefit those who hold power .
So move the ermine to a museum and leave the gilding in a gallery .
•
Richard Power Sayeed is the author of a history of New Labour and Britain in the 1990s , 1997 :
The Future that Never Happened

West Indies say Test tour of England has been postponed due to Covid-19 .
2020-04-24 22:50:43 +00:00 .
The three - Test series between England and West Indies in June has been postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak , Cricket West Indies ( CWI ) said on Friday .
The West Indies had been scheduled to play on 4 - 8 June at The Oval , 12 - 16 June at Edgbaston and 25 - 29 June at Lord ’s .
The decision to postpone the tour came as the result of the uncertainty surrounding the safe resumption of the sport in Britain as well as international air travel .
“ We continue to be in regular dialogue with the ECB on when and how we might be able to rearrange the Test series , ” said the CWI chief executive , Johnny Grave .
“ Clearly playing in June is now not possible and we will continue our discussions with the ECB and other Internationals Boards on trying to find new dates .
We will only travel to England to play the series if our players can be assured that it is safe to do so . ”
The CWI said the proposed window for the staging of this series is now July until the end of September .
The prospect of the inaugural World Test Championship ( WTC ) final taking place in 2021 will hinge on whether England can salvage a cricket season this year and get their home series against Pakistan played .
The nine teams in the WTC need to have played six series apiece by the time the top two – currently India and Australia – play off for the trophy at Lord ’s in June 2021 and , though a number are already starting to be postponed , the southern hemisphere summer later in the year offers an outside chance of playing catch - up .
Joe Root ’s England side have played two series but are already in arrears after the West Indies postponement and after their tour of Sri Lanka was abandoned in March .
Should they fail to host Pakistan , all three series would need to be played on the road next winter , on top of a five - Test visit to India from January .

Weatherwatch: thousands in lockdown rescue rainfall records .
2020-04-24 20:44:01 +00:00 .
February 2020 was the wettest February on record for the UK and the fifth wettest of any calendar month in a series dating back to 1862 .
209 mm of rain fell across the country , and some areas recorded as much as four times their normal February rainfall , resulting in severe flooding .
So how does this compare to the UK ’s wettest month on record : October 1903 ?
The records show that 227 mm of rain fell during October 1903 , but the observations are not detailed enough to show precisely where and when the most intense rainfall occurred .
That ’s because thousands of meticulous weather observations are recorded in copperplate hand - writing , but have n’t yet made it to digital form .
Now they have !
A call for volunteers to use Covid-19 lockdown time to help rescue rainfall records has resulted in over 15,000 people transcribing all five million UK rainfall measurements recorded between 1820 and 1960 , in the space of just three weeks .
Once the data has been double checked scientists will be able to compare exceptional months like October 1903 and February 2020 , and understand the variation in British weather .
Meanwhile , more data awaits .
“ The next project will be at sea , looking at ship weather logbooks , ” says Ed Hawkins , who leads the Weather Rescue project .

Kenyan police officer charged with murder of former Leeds student .
2020-04-24 12:44:25 +00:00 .
A Kenyan police officer has appeared before a Nairobi court charged with the murder of 23 - year - old Carliton Maina , a former Leeds University student , who was shot dead in December 2018 .
The charging of police constable Emmanuel Ambunya Oyombe marks a significant milestone in the Kenyan government ’s commitment to tackling its issue with questionable police shootings , and to speeding up its justice process in bringing those accused to trial .
The Milimani high court hearing on Thursday was held outdoors , in response to the coronavirus pandemic , the first time this has happened in Kenya since the 1950s state of emergency .
Oyombe , who remains a serving police office , pleaded not guilty to murder .
A trial date has not yet been set .
He was arrested last week , according to an announcement made on social media by Kenya ’s director of criminal investigations .
The director said the officer would be charged with the murder of Maina , who “ succumbed to gunshot wounds inflicted on him by the said officer ” .
Irungu Houghton , Amnesty International ’s director in Kenya , who has been lobbying the government to do more to stop such incidents , said on Thursday he had taken a keen interest in the case and welcomed the investigation .
Maina ’s mother , Josephine Wangare , was in court , supported by a legal team from Amnesty .
She said seeing someone brought to court to face trial had restored her faith in justice .
“ I am grateful , ” she said .
“ The death of my son Carliton has been very painful for us and his friends .
He was greatly loved .
After a year with no one prosecuted for his death I had begun to despair . ”
Maina was raised in Kibera , Africa ’s largest slum .
A straight - A student , he showed exceptional talent , which eventually earned him a scholarship to Leeds University in the UK .
He had returned to Kibera over the Christmas holidays and was walking home on 22 December from watching a televised football match with friends when they met two police officers .
It is said that there was an exchange of words and Maina ran from the officers .
At Laini Saba , a short instance from the home where he lived with his grandmother , he was hit by four bullets to his body and head .
Last year the Guardian interviewed Josephine Mangare about the killing , which had sparked outrage in the local community .
Students took to the streets in protest with placards demanding “ Justice for Maina ” .
The court case comes against a background of Kenya ’s questionably high police - related deaths – referred to as “ extrajudicial killings ” by communities and local news reports – often shootings after street interventions or stops .
In an attempt to bridge the gap between themselves and people in Kibera , the Kenyan police have been carrying out a community engagement programme aimed at building trust and rooting out those who prey on the vulnerable .
Gang rape , murder and robbery are all too common occurrences in the slums .
Officers are targets for criminals and gangs in slums like Kibera and Kisumu , which offer dangerous and difficult terrain to patrol .
Several have been killed over the past few years .
Kenya ’s government claims to be making an effort to weed out the rogue officers among its 60,000 - strong police force .
As of March 2018 , the country ’s Independent Policing Oversight Authority was monitoring 9,878 outstanding complaints against police , of which 5,085 were earmarked for detailed investigation .

New mother dies of coronavirus six days after giving birth .
2020-04-24 10:40:55 +00:00 .
A woman has died from coronavirus just days after giving birth without ever being able to hold her newborn son .
Fozia Hanif , started to develop symptoms and tested positive for the disease just before her 29th birthday , resulting in the premature birth of her son , Ayaan , earlier this month .
Just six days after giving birth Hanif ’s family were given the devastating news that she would not recover and her ventilator would be turned off .
The probation service worker , was only ever able to see her newborn son on a photograph printed for her by nurses at Birmingham Heartlands hospital , with her family describing it as a “ happy ” moment .
“ She was really happy , she got the baby photo they ( nurses ) printed out for her , ” her husband of nearly seven years , Wajid Ali , told ITV News .
“ She was holding and say ‘ look it ’s our baby ’ and ‘ we ’re going to come home soon ’ … that ’s the last time I spoke to her . ”
Her sister , Sophie Hanif said she would receive texts telling her how excited she was to finally meet her baby .
“ She was messaging us saying ‘ oh I have n’t seen the baby yet ’
and I said ‘ do n’t worry about it , when you come home you ’re going to come home together and we ’re all going to see him together ’ , ” she said .
Initially Hanif who gave birth to her son on 2 April , showed some signs of overcoming the disease and was taken to a recovery ward , but shortly afterwards her condition worsened and she was moved to an intensive care unit ( ICU ) .
Hanif , had been going to hospital for check - ups during her pregnancy , when she developed a slight fever in March and hospital staff decided to keep her in for tests .
She tested positive for coronavirus but was soon released back home and was able to celebrate her birthday with her family .
However , while at home her condition quickly began to deteriorate , and she was taken back to hospital , isolated from her family and put on a ventilator .
Her husband said : “ They said we ’re going to keep her here to find out and we ’re going to do a Covid test and they kept her for two days .
“ The test came back positive and the next day they said it was mild and you can go home .
After four days she had difficulty breathing and we called the ambulance . ”
After being informed she had developed a blood clot and was in a coma , her husband and father , Nabil , were allowed to visit wearing personal protective equipment ( PPE ) .
At one stage the family were told her condition was improving and she would be taken to the recovery ward .
Her father said : “ It gave us proper hope , we got excited .
They took her to the recovery ward , they gave her the phone , we actually spoke to her .
“ When we walked into the hospital when they said they were going to turn the machines off , I said no do n’t turn it off until we arrive , she ’s a fighter , she can pull through – but when we walked in there , we just kept praying . ”
Hanif died on 8 April , six days after her son Ayaan was born just 31 weeks into her pregnancy by C - section .
While Ayaan has tested negative , he remains in hospital .
Her sister added : “ She had no time at all .
“ She was asking for food , she was asking about the baby , she was asking about family and then all of a sudden ...
It was just a shock to us all . ”

Missing Wuhan citizen journalist reappears after two months .
2020-04-22 13:40:55 +00:00 .
A Chinese citizen journalist who was missing for almost two months after posting videos from Wuhan during the coronavirus outbreak has re - appeared , claiming that he was detained by police and forcibly quarantined .
Li Zehua was one of three Chinese journalists who had been reporting from the front lines in Wuhan during some of the worst weeks of the epidemic .
He was last seen on 26 February after posting a video in which he was chased by a white SUV and an hours - long live - stream that ended when several agents entered his apartment .
In a video posted on Youtube , Weibo and Twitter Li said on 26 February the white SUV had pulled out in front of him while he was driving in the Wuchang district in Wuhan and the people in it yelled for him to stop .
Li panicked and drove off with the car in pursuit , recording the video that he posted online later that day .
After making it back to his apartment , he saw uniformed police and staff in protective suits knocking on the doors of his neighbours .
Li turned the lights off and sat quietly in front of his computer for hours , waiting .
Three hours later , a knock came .
At least three men entered his apartment , identifying themselves as public security .
Li then went with them to a local police station where he was told he was being investigated on charges of disrupting public order .
Police later said they would not charge him but because he had visited “ sensitive epidemic areas ” he would need to undergo quarantine .
Li , who had to give his devices over to a friend , spent the next month in quarantine in Wuhan and then in his hometown in a different province .
He was served three meals a day , monitored by security guards and able to watch state broadcaster CCTV ’s evening newscast .
“ Throughout the whole time , the police acted civilly and legally , making sure I had rest and food .
They really cared about me , ” he said .
Li said he was released on 28 March and has been spending time with his family .
He wished those who suffered during the epidemic a fast recovery .
“ May God bless China and the people of the world unite . ”
Li ’s tone and comments , neutral and patriotic , were markedly different from his previous videos .
Li , who had worked for the state - broadcaster CCTV , travelled to Wuhan to report on the crisis after another citizen journalist and activist Chen Qiushi disappeared .
In his videos , he reported on a local neighbourhood committee ’s efforts to cover up new infectionsand interviewed sick residents .
He visited a crematorium where a worker said people were being paid more to transport bodies .
At the time Li said : “ I do n’t want to remain silent , or shut my eyes and ears .
It ’s not that I ca n’t have a nice life , with a wife and kids .
I can .
I ’m doing this because I hope more young people can , like me , stand up . ”
Yet , in closing his video on Wednesday , Li quoted a line from a Confucian text about staying true to one ’s beliefs .
“ The human heart is unpredictable , restless .
Its affinity to what is right is small .
Be discriminating , be uniform so that you may hold fast , ” he said .

Manchester Arena bomb survivors denied central role in inquiry .
2020-04-22 12:50:17 +00:00 .
Survivors of the Manchester Arena bombing have been denied legal representation at the hearings after it was ruled they are not considered core participants .
A group of 56 survivors had wanted to play a central part at the inquiry , which is due to examine the intelligence background and emergency response on the day .
They include a father who was left in a wheelchair and another who was blinded in one eye .
The inquiry was due to begin on 15 June but has been delayed until September because of the coronavirus pandemic .
Brenda Campbell QC told a video - link hearing this month that holding an inquiry without their participation would be an “ affront to the confidence of the public ” .
She argued that those injured in the attack should be granted core participant status and be legally represented , including doctors , retired police officers and members of the public who “ plugged a gap ” in the emergency response as they waited hours for help to arrive .
In total , 93 people were either seriously or very seriously injured in the suicide bombing in May 2017 , along with the 22 fatalities .
Some remained in hospital for months , many were discharged to round - the - clock care and others were “ learning to cope in a world they never previously conceived of , ” said Campbell .
However , Sir John Saunders , the chairman of the public inquiry , has ruled they can participate as witnesses but can not have legal representation .
In making his ruling , he issued a separate statement justifying his decision .
He accepted the attack had had a “ terrible and lasting impact ” on the survivors and added : “ The injuries , trauma and personal tragedy that the survivors have suffered can not be overstated . ”
He said : “ I fully appreciate that this application is born of the desire of the survivors to ensure that the reasons for the attack are fully understood , the adequacy of the emergency response is examined , and that lessons are learned . ”
But he went on to say : “ After a great deal of anxious thought , I have decided to refuse this application . ”
The former high court judge said the survivors would still have a “ voice in this inquiry ” , adding : “ I have concluded that they will be able to contribute to the inquiry without core participant status and I strongly encourage them to do so . ”
He promised the survivors would be able to raise any concerns with the legal team running the inquiry and help “ identify lines of inquiry that they would wish to have pursued ” .
Some bereaved families agreed with Saunders ’ decision , saying he was correct to exclude survivors from core participation because they might “ dilute the focus ” .
Following the ruling , Saoirse de Bont , a solicitor at Irwin Mitchell representing the survivors , said some of her clients had been “ close to death ” and they believed the inquiry would now be “ limited ” as a result of the ruling .
She added : “ The survivor victim families we represent are very disappointed with today ’s decision .
They will not have the same rights and access to the inquiry as other core participants such as the police and government .
“ They will not be able to play a core participant role in the inquiry and they believe that the investigation to learn lessons will be limited as a result . ”

'Beyond anything I’d played with': Rashford says Ibrahimovic key to his rise .
2020-04-21 09:29:17 +00:00 .
Marcus Rashford has said he is recovering well from a serious back injury and pointed to Zlatan Ibrahimovic and José Mourinho as key to his development at Manchester United .
The striker had scored a career - best 19 goals before sustaining a double stress fracture in mid - January .
Ole Gunnar Solskjær said it was “ touch and go ” whether Rashford would play again this season , and the 22 - year - old ’s has benefited from football ’s coronavirus shutdown in terms of his recuperation .
“ I was probably going to go back with the team towards the middle or end of April , ” he told United ’s app .
“ But that would have been a push because I did n’t want to miss the summer
[ England ’s Euro 2020 campaign ] .
“ I doubt I would have been 100 % fit going into that tournament , or even finishing off the season , but that ’s what we were aiming for .
Since then , a lot ’s happened with this virus so , for my body really , it ’s been good to give it its full duration to rest .
I need to step it up a little bit now
but it ’s difficult to do with not being in the training ground .
To try to emulate that at home , it ’s almost impossible . ”
Rashford first played with Ibrahimovic during 2016 - 17 when the Swede was United ’s top scorer with 28 goals .
“ His mentality was beyond anything I ’d ever played with before , ” Rashford said .
“ He did n’t care what anyone would say or what anyone was saying about him .
In terms of mentality , he was key to my development . ”
Mourinho was manager from summer 2016 until December 2018 .
Rashford did not always start under the Portuguese but got a lot of game time .
“ As someone [ Zlatan ] who ’d played under him before , he knew you had to be a certain way to survive under him , and that was good [ for me , too ] , ” Rashford said .
“ It was tough but , in five or six years ’ time , I ’ll look back and they ’re the moments that give you that mental toughness and make you an all - round player .
“ I ’ve improved a lot and a lot of it is down to those two years under José .
We had ups and downs but , when I look back on it , it was a tough period , but it made me a better player . ”

'Bitter pill': Bavaria cancels Oktoberfest over fears of coronavirus spread .
2020-04-21 09:17:29 +00:00 .
Bavaria ’s leaders have cancelled Oktoberfest , the world ’s biggest beer festival , due to fears that it could become a breeding ground for the coronavirus .
The 210 - year - old festival , which attracts around six million visitors a year , is a major event in the German calendar .
Markus Söder , the premier of Bavaria , which has been one of the regions worst hit by the pandemic in Europe , said the Oktoberfest posed too big a public health risk .
He had hinted over several weeks that it was “ on the rocks ” and was unlikely to take place .
“ Living with coronavirus means living carefully
, ” Söder said .
“ As long as there is no vaccination , we need to be very sensible .
We are in mutual agreement that the risk is quite simply too high … compromises will not help . ”
The festival takes place in Munich , the Bavarian capital .
Its mayor , Dieter Reiter , called the decision a “ bitter pill ” .
He said that for businesses that take part in the festival it was a heavy financial blow , and in their interests it had been decided not to prolong announcing the move .
“ But one can simply not take a decision other than this , ” he said .
The risk of festival goers , who sit packed closely together in large beer tents , infecting each other was high , Reiter said .
“ This is an emotional and economically difficult moment , ” he said .
Revenue from the Oktoberfest last year amounted to around € 1bn ( £ 870 m ) .
Some areas in Germany have started to relax lockdown measures introduced last month to slow the spread of coronavirus , but big events are banned until 31 August .
On Monday , Chancellor Angela Merkel urged Germans to be disciplined to avoid a relapse after some improvement in the virus numbers .
The festival , also known colloquially as “ Die Wiesn ” or “ the meadow ” was due to take place from 19 September to 4 October , attracting visitors from around the world .
Some of the brewers who take part had suggested holding a “ Wiesn Light ” – hosting it only for locals , but city authorities rejected the idea .
The Oktoberfest started in 1810 on 12 October , to celebrate the marriage of the crown prince of Bavaria to Princess Therese von Sachsen - Hildburghausen .
It is the biggest annual tourist attraction in Germany .
Thousands of offshoot Oktoberfests take place around the world and are particularly popular in the United States .
On Tuesday morning , Bavaria had over 39,000 confirmed cases of coronavirus , and 1,447 people had died of the disease .

The antidote: your favourite reads beyond coronavirus .
2020-04-21 06:33:59 +00:00 .
‘ They were at close quarters , Gould recalls , made all the more so by the conspicuous , gilded .45 automatic in Elvis ’s belt and the watchful presence of his manager as well as the singer ’s father , Vernon .
It was clear to Gould that they would not let their “ cash cow ” out of their sight and he said so , urging Presley to “ leave ‘ Elvis ’ here and come out , be a free spirit ” .
“ Elvis says to me , with his gold gun in his belt : ‘ You ’re crazy , man . ’
I said : ‘ Elvis , I ai n’t crazy .
I ’m scared , just like you . ’ ” ’ ‘ Inter had just made history , becoming the first Italian side ever to win a treble of Serie A , the Coppa Italia and the Champions League .
And now we knew that it was exactly that : history .
Mourinho ’s time with the club was over , he was not coming back . ’
“ I believe at the beginning there was an initial motivation
and then I think it turned to randomness , ” RCMP commissioner Brenda Lucki said on Sunday evening .
“ We do n’t know for sure and we ’re going to have to do a lot of work on finding the motivation … a lot of background , profiling type of events and a lot of crime scene processing . ”
‘ He calls telekinesis and telepathy “ gifts from this higher order , the source , the god , whatever , that allows us to understand the higher power and higher order in ourselves ” .
He once hired a coach , Pepe Imaz , who probably taught him about telepathy and levitation , and whose techniques include extremely long hugs . ’
‘ Heading up the Corpus Christi contingent was Ian Wang , nicknamed Grandmaster Wang by fans for his extensive knowledge of 1980s music – he correctly identified a song by hip - hop group Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five after hearing only a second of the intro . ’
‘ It ’s now a self - parody on autopilot , where everyone cooks scallops with minted pea puree , followed by chocolate fondant for pud ; where Instagram food bores “ deconstruct ” dishes that were just fine before , while Wallace and Torode yell into their faces like a wine - flushed Jeremy Clarkson in a Cotswolds carvery . ’
The first victim identified was Royal Canadian Mounted Police constable Heidi Stevenson , a mother of two who had served on the force for 23 years .
“ We have lost one of our own while she was protecting others , ” said RCMP chief superintendent Chris Leather on Monday afternoon .
“ This is the definition of a true hero . ”
‘ After a first half of few chances and a good goal by Andy Gray disallowed for offside , things livened up on 58 minutes when Gray stabbed in a volley after good work from Graeme Sharp .
Fifteen minutes later Trevor Steven scored from close range at the back post after a corner and that seemed to be that .
But then came the worrying bit . ’
‘ The messages , revealed in court documents filed at the high court on Monday , show Harry repeatedly tried to make contact in the days before the televised royal wedding in May 2018 .
Thomas Markle , who lives in Mexico , had been expected to walk his daughter down the aisle in the ceremony at Windsor Palace , and was revealed by the Mail on Sunday to have helped stage paparazzi pictures of himself preparing for the wedding . ’
‘ “ It was becoming clear that Mark and I would miss each other , and neither of us were sure if we ’d see each other again , ” she says .
Shortly before she left , the two went for a final night out in central London , which ended in a goodnight kiss at Oxford Circus tube station . ’

Liverpool v Atlético virus links 'interesting hypothesis', says government scientist .
2020-04-20 23:14:15 +00:00 .
Links between the outbreak of coronavirus in Liverpool and the Champions League tie at Anfield attended by more than 3,000 Atlético Madrid supporters should be explored , a government scientist acknowledged on Monday .
Supporters travelled from Madrid to attend the game on 11 March when Spain ’s capital was already implementing a partial lockdown .
This month Liverpool city council ’s director of public health , Matthew Ashton , told the Guardian the fixture should have been called off , and at the weekend the mayor of Madrid , José Luis Martínez - Almeida , said it was a “ mistake ” to allow the fans to attend .
New figures show that 246 people have died with coronavirus in Liverpool ’s NHS hospitals , increasing anger over the decision to allow the game to go ahead .
The government ’s deputy chief scientific adviser , Angela McLean , said at the daily coronavirus press conference at Downing Street the link between the illness in the two cities “ is an interesting hypothesis ” .
She told a reporter from the Liverpool Echo : “ I ’m genuinely sad to hear that so many people in Liverpool have been unwell and so many have died .
I think it would be very interesting to see in the future when all the science is done what relationship there is between the viruses that have circulated in Liverpool and the viruses that have circulated in Spain . ”
McLean said the general policy at the time was that attending football games was not seen as a large “ extra risk ” .
The fixture , which resulted in Liverpool going out of the Champions League after losing 3 - 2 , was held at a time when the city of Liverpool had just six confirmed cases of coronavirus .
Madrid had by then become a centre for the spread of the virus .
Spain ’s top league , La Liga , decided that day that all matches must be played behind closed doors .
That week up to 250,000 people attended the four - day Cheltenham Festival – the government has faced repeated criticism for allowing it to go ahead .
The culture secretary , Oliver Dowden , defended the decision on Sunday .
The Guardian revealed this month how the organisers of the event cited the presence of Boris Johnson at an international rugby match shortly before the race meeting was due to begin in a letter explaining why they decided to go ahead .
The chancellor , Rishi Sunak , who led the Downing Street press conference on Monday , said it was likely that because of the unprecedented situation coronavirus has presented that there will be lessons to learn for the future .
“ At every stage in this crisis we have been guided by the scientific advice and have been making the right decisions at the right time .
There is often a wrong time to put certain measures in place , thinking about sustainability and everything else , and at all parts of this we have been guided by that science .
We ’ve been guided by making the right decisions at the right time , and I stand by that . ”

Coronavirus latest: at a glance .
2020-04-19 06:13:06 +00:00 .
Donald Trump has warned that China should face consequences if it was “ knowingly responsible ” for the coronavirus pandemic .
“ It could have been stopped in China before it started and it was n’t , and the whole world is suffering because of it , ” Trump said in his daily White House briefing .
“ If it was a mistake , a mistake is a mistake .
But if they were knowingly responsible ,
yeah ,
I mean , then sure there should be consequences , ” Trump said .
He did not elaborate on what form that might take .
Deaths so far in the global coronavirus pandemic have passed 160,000 , according to Johns Hopkins University figures .
The toll is currently at 160,717 .
This news comes as the total number of deaths in Europe approaches 100,000 .
The US has the highest toll globally , with 39,089 fatalities .
China ’s National Health Commission reported 16 new confirmed coronavirus cases for the 24 hours to Sunday , the lowest number since 17 March , and down from 27 a day earlier .
Of the new cases , 9 were imported infections , and the remaining 7 confirmed cases were locally transmitted .
The total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the country reached 82,735 as of 18 April , while the total death toll from the virus stood at 4,632 , it said .
Prime minister Pedro Sanchez said he will extend the nationwide coronavirus lockdown to 9 May , hours after the official death toll passed 20,000 .
“ We have done the hardest part through responsibility and social discipline ... we are putting the most extreme moments behind us , ” Sanchez said .
The restrictions currently in place would however be loosened slightly to allow children time outside from 27 April , said Sanchez .
Spain , which has been under confinement since 14 March , has recorded 20,639 deaths from the virus .
A day after Donald Trump encouraged protests against strict public health measures aimed at limiting the spread of coronavirus , Americans rallied in Maryland , Texas and Ohio , with more planned for next week in other states .
Hundreds of people stood shoulder - to - shoulder at the Texas Capitol on Saturday as part of a protest organised by the conspiracy theory site InfoWars , while in Maryland , protesters stayed inside their cars and honked their horns as they drove around the capital , Annapolis .
Canada and the United States have agreed to extend border restrictions for another 30 days to help control the spread of coronavirus , the prime minister , Justin Trudeau , said on Saturday .
Washington and Ottawa agreed last month to clamp down on non - essential travel while allowing trade to continue during the coronavirus outbreak .
The agreement was due to expire this week .
South Korea recorded just eight new daily coronavirus cases on Sunday , the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said .
The nation ’s total tally is 10,661 cases and 234 deaths .

Premier League could return by mid-June in 'best-case scenario' .
2020-04-17 21:01:38 +00:00 .
Premier League clubs have discussed resuming the season on the weekend of 13 - 14 June after Uefa wrote to domestic associations stating a desire they should finish their competitions by 31 July to leave August clear for the completion of the Champions League and Europa League .
The letter from European football ’s governing body formed the basis of a two - hour conference call on Friday that explored how the Premier League may be concluded .
While any resumption is being modelled on matches occurring behind closed doors , guiding the decision - making is the overriding principle that the National Health Service ’s ability to treat those with Covid-19 should not be compromised and that it has to be at ease with the top - flight restarting .
This means the Premier League wants the NHS to give the go - ahead
and so the health service has power of veto .
In the best - case scenario clubs would have a “ pre - season ” from 10 or 14 May , giving players four weeks to regain fitness , with the minimum they would need set at two weeks .
If training began three or four weeks before the weekend of 13 and 14 June , the opening days may feature players training individually or in small groups to ensure the best protection before squads worked together as normal .
Protocols devised by the Premier League and club doctors and signed off by the requisite bodies
would have testing at the forefront and would be in place to try to ensure a safe return to games .
Those at matches – players , club staff , officials , security and media – would all have to be tested and there would have to be procedures to address the prospect of large groups of fans gathering outside stadiums .
Uefa ’s wish is that the Champions League and Europa League should each recommence from the week of Monday 3 August with the final of the former being staged on Saturday 29 August and that of the latter to be played a few days before .
If the Premier League was to restart on 13 June – a Saturday – it would allow seven weeks to finish the season .
As 16 clubs have nine matches left and Manchester City , Sheffield United , Aston Villa and Arsenal have 10 , the timeframe would appear to be long enough for the campaign to be finished comfortably .
It is understood the Premier League is conscious of a worst - case scenario given the unpredictability of coronavirus and how long it may take to tackle it .
The pessimistic view is that no football can resume until October , seven months after the last round of matches .

Israel's first coronavirus victim survived Holocaust hiding in cellars .
2020-04-17 09:25:19 +00:00 .
As a child in Hungary , Arie Even survived the Holocaust by taking shelter with his mother and brother after his father was sent to a notorious concentration camp .
Even ’s well - connected grandfather found refuge for them in a Swiss - protected home in Budapest before they were rushed to another shelter , under the cover of night , thanks to the Swedish embassy and the efforts of the famed diplomat Raoul Wallenberg , who saved tens of thousands of Jews before mysteriously disappearing .
The next day , Even ’s grandfather was shot and his body was dumped in the Danube River .
Later in life , Even survived multiple heart attacks , surgeries and even a brush with a cholera epidemic during a family visit to Spain .
But he could n’t escape the coronavirus pandemic .
On 20 March , the 88 - year - old became Israel ’s first coronavirus fatality after being infected by a visiting social worker at his assisted - living facility in Jerusalem .
Despite having four children , 18 grandchildren and a great - grandchild living in Israel , Even died alone ; his loved ones being forced to stay away and say goodbye over the phone .
In keeping with the Jewish practice of burying the dead quickly , his funeral was held the next day , at the end of the Sabbath .
His youngest child , representing the family , was one of only a few people allowed to attend – at a distance – as he was buried by Jewish religious authorities wearing biohazard suits .
With Israel in virtual lockdown , his family was deprived of a proper sitting of shiva , the Jewish week of mourning in which families host open houses for relatives and friends to offer their condolences .
“ He was a strong man and he overcame the hardships of the Holocaust , ” said his daughter Yael , expressing frustration at how he and others in the retirement home were exposed .
“ He lived a full life .
It ’s just a shame he had to go this way . ”
He was born George Steiner , to a wealthy Hungarian Jewish family , but their lives were turned upside down by Nazi rule .
His father was sent to the Mauthausen concentration camp in 1941 .
When Germany occupied Hungary in 1944 , Even , his mother and brother went into hiding for nearly a year , sometimes in bales of hay and underground cellars .
After the war , aged 17 , he moved to Israel , joined a kibbutz and was then drafted into the military as an aircraft technician .
His parents , who also survived the war , fled Hungary after the Soviet invasion in 1956 and later joined him in Israel .
His wife , Yona , a distant relative of the Israeli president Reuven Rivlin , died in 2012 .
She was a career diplomat and he followed her to India , Japan , Germany , France and elsewhere while maintaining his own career as a customs officer .
Later in life he recorded video testimony for the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial at the request of his children .
He recalled the day Budapest was liberated by Russian troops who threw loaves of bread from their trucks .
“ Since then , I ’m sympathetic to the Russians , ” he said with a smirk .
The eldest of his four children , Yaacov , 62 , described a “ classy ” gentleman who studied Latin and dreamed of becoming a doctor .
He said his father was lucid until the end , walking around with a cane and telling his children to plan a big party for his 90th .
“ Who knows how long he had left ?
Another week ?
A year ?
Five years ?
Whatever it was , it feels like a waste to lose him now , ” he said .
“ It still feels like he died before his time . ”

Team Ineos will pull out of Tour if it is not safe, warns Dave Brailsford .
2020-04-17 08:53:13 +00:00 .
Dave Brailsford has said he would pull his Team Ineos squad out of the rescheduled 2020 Tour de France if he felt that the race ’s precautions against coronavirus were not panning out in a “ measured , intelligent and responsible way . ”
“ We would reserve the right to withdraw the team should we deem it necessary , ” he told The Guardian , citing his team ’s withdrawal from racing in March as Covid-19 infections gathered pace , prior to the Paris - Nice stage race .
“ Whilst the race is on , we will plan to participate , but equally we will monitor the evolving nature of how things play out , as we did prior to Paris - Nice , ” Brailsford said .
“ This is a sensible , responsible and reasoned approach . ”
After France ’s president , Emmanuel Macron , banned any large public events until 11 July , the Tour ’s original start dates in June were scrapped and the Grand Départ in Nice postponed until 29 August .
However , the decision to go ahead with the Tour has drawn fierce criticism from Devi Sridhar , c hair of Global Public Health at the University of Edinburgh and adviser on the pandemic to the Scottish Government , who described it as a “ recipe for disaster . ”
“ The wise thing to do is cancel for this year , ” she said .
“ It ’s a painful decision but they have no choice . ”
“ There will be a lot of debate generated about the rights and wrongs of the transitions out of lockdown across all aspects of society including sporting events , ” Brailsford said .
“ Equally most people recognise that the learning from transitioning out of lockdown will only take place once it begins .
We will monitor the situation very carefully and of course take note of national guidance and all advice . ”
Jonathan Vaughters , manager of the US - based Education First team , said that he believed that the Tour ’s promoters , ASO , had ruled out the option of a Tour “ behind closed doors ” , without roadside spectators , too hastily .
He said : “ I do n’t see the logic in declaring that they would not have it behind closed doors .
I know that would n’t be tradition , but that seems a good option to me , because you ’re minimising risk .
I do n’t want to see that option eliminated .
If I was them , I would consider that a serious option , rather than their stance which seems to be , ‘ it ’s all or nothing . ’ ”
Like Brailsford , Vaughters confirmed that both he and his team ’s sponsor , Education First , would be seeking assurances from the Tour organisation .
“ We would want to see proper mitigation techniques before the event , ” he said .
“ Maybe by July or August the virus has abated to the point that it ’s not such a risk , but I can say that if there is a risk of a second wave that the Tour might be part of , then we would demand that there would be major mitigation before the event .
“ It ’s probably a good idea to quarantine the riders before the start , ” he said , “ but the attitude from ASO seems ‘ it ’s either the way we have always done it or not at all ’ , which is maybe a little short sighted on their part .
It ’s better to bring in these extra measures than not have the race at all . ”
Vaughters acknowledged that the desire to hold the Tour was good news for cycling ’s business model .
He said : “ “ The Tour could be a bell weather for the economy because if it happens , it ’s a sign that things are improving .
But we also have to watch China very carefully and see what happens there as it opens up . ”

'We can't move forward': readers on the UK lockdown extension .
2020-04-16 17:35:59 +00:00 .
It is reasonable to maintain a lockdown however , this mismanagement is illustrative of the kind of poor judgment and lack of commitment to the UK from those around Johnson ’s government .
We ca n’t move forward because it is chaos .
bang2rights
I do n’t understand how the government can say that planning how the lockdown is eased would be ‘ confusing ’ , yet for the lockdown they announced an initial three weeks and then sort of fudged extending it .
So we ’ve had a fourth week all on its own and now it ’s officially extended for three more weeks .
Why were they incapable of announcing a three week extension before the end of the first three weeks ?
Clarity of messaging is vital .
17Luftballons
If the government announce an extension of the lockdown until 10/11 May , then that would be a sensible decision .
But if they do so , they also need to plan for a managed transition out of lockdown , it can not be all or nothing .
We desperately need to stop large social gatherings happening immediately after the end of the lockdown or we risk another spike and having to immediately re - introduce measures .
gbrading
So three weeks brings us to 7 May. Friday 8 May is a bank holiday intended to celebrate the 75th anniversary of VE day .
There ’s no way the lockdown will end May 7 .
It ’ll be extended again .
rockyrex Another three weeks at least , and already ‘ adults are showing signs of stress and anxiety ’ , according to another article here today and , from an article last week , primary - age children are ‘ fearful of leaving the house ’ , acting for all the world like people with full - blown agoraphobia .
We ’re sowing mines as we go , and nobody knows the pattern .
musicforpleasure On a more serious note – I am losing confidence that this government will ever let us get back to a normal situation any time soon .
They just do n’t trust us to understand any potential plan and not break the current lockdown .
It may be OK now - but what about in 1 or 2 months time ?
MyRedShed No plan , no clue , no hope .
As usual .
WillyThePeople Could someone tell Raab , we ’re not asking for a timeframe , we are asking , ‘ Do you have a exit plan ? ’ .
If not , just say so , but if we do n’t then when other countries start to come out of this with a plan , we are going to look incredibly stupid as we will not only be the last country to come out of all this , we will come out of it like a bunch of clueless idiots .
Mr_Kirk_1974 Another three weeks !
That is getting very close to Johnson being able to make a big announcement on the 75th anniversary of VE day .
DeMinimisLex I ’m not at all convinced that the benefits of the lockdown are outweighing the drawbacks .
The statistics on deaths being caused indirectly , not to mention the immeasurable impacts of peoples mental health are unknown but likely to be huge .
The long - term economic impacts will worsen with every day this goes on .
We need a staged exit ASAP
but the government does n’t seem to have any sort of plan .
jazzual There is evidence of excess deaths , resulting from people being unwilling to use the NHS because of fear of coronavirus .
But easing the lockdown is not going to solve that problem .
It would just mean that the epidemic would get out of control , and people would have even more reason to avoid using the NHS .
The only way to reduce these excess deaths , is to contain the virus .
SporadicWit Raab says we ca n’t ease the lockdown until PPE and testing are in place .
So never then ?
Bowring72

Chilean author, campaigner and escapee Luis Sepúlveda dies aged 70 of Covid-19 .
2020-04-16 17:05:42 +00:00 .
The celebrated Chilean author Luis Sepúlveda , who was exiled by the dictator Augusto Pinochet in the 1980s , has died from Covid-19 .
Best known for his 1992 novel The Old Man
Who Read Love Stories and 1996 ’s
The Story of a Seagull and The Cat Who Taught Her To Fly , Sepúlveda died in hospital on Thursday .
He first began showing symptoms from coronavirus on 25 February , after returning to his home in Spain from a festival in Portugal .
On 1 March , it was confirmed that Sepúlveda was the first case of Covid-19 in the Asturias region , where he had lived for 20 years .
“ Health workers gave everything to save his life but he never got over the illness .
My condolences to his wife and family , ” tweeted Adrián Barbón , president of the Asturias region .
Sepúlveda ’s works , appreciated for their simple humour and depictions of life in South America , have been translated in some 50 countries and range from novels and screenplays to children ’s stories .
Sepúlveda was particularly successful in Europe , where he had been based since the 80s .
Born in 1949 in Ovalle , north of the Chilean capital Santiago , Sepúlveda was a political activist from a young age , first for the Communist Youth of Chile , and then for the Socialist party .
He was arrested and jailed for treason for two and a half years in 1973 under the military regime of Pinochet , whose dictatorship lasted 17 years , during which at least 38,000 people were tortured and 3,200 people killed or disappeared .
After intervention from Amnesty International , Sepúlveda was conditionally freed to house arrest .
He then escaped and lived underground for nearly a year before being recaptured and sentenced to 28 years in prison .
After more assistance from Amnesty , his sentence was changed to eight years in exile .
In 1977 , while travelling to Sweden to teach Spanish literature , Sepúlveda escaped again on his stopover in Argentina and headed to Paraguay .
He never returned to live in Chile and his nationality was stripped from him until 2017 .
After leaving his home country he travelled around Latin America , where he founded theatre troupes in Ecuador , Peru and Colombia .
In Nicaragua , he fought with the Nicaraguan Sandinistas , who went on to overthrow the dictatorship in force at the time .
In 1978 , Sepúlveda spent a year living under a Unesco study programme with the indigenous Shuar people in the Amazon .
They would feature in his first novel , published in 1992 , The Old Man Who Read Love Stories , a rallying call to redefine man ’s relationship with nature .
Translated into 35 languages , the novel was a global success and in 2001 a film version starring Richard Dreyfuss was directed by Rolf de Heer .
After 1982 , Sepúlveda lived in Europe , firstly in Hamburg , where he became a journalist and sailed the seas for several years with Greenpeace .
In 1996 , he settled in Asturias , with his wife Carmen Yáñez , a poet who had been tortured under Pinochet .

Crown and Star casinos outline survival strategies for coronavirus shutdowns .
2020-04-16 06:27:24 +00:00 .
Australia ’s two big casino groups , Crown Resorts and the Star group , have released details of their survival strategies in a bid to reassure investors they can weather the shutdowns of their businesses due to the coronavirus .
The government announced that casinos must close on 23 March , resulting in two of the nation ’s biggest employers laying off thousands of staff and closing their casinos .
The Star announced on Thursday it had executed an additional debt - funding facility with existing relationship banks for $ 200 m to strengthen its liquidity position .
It said it has stood down about 8,500 staff and terminated casuals and contractors .
It would access the government ’s jobkeeper scheme for eligible employees , it said .
The chief executive , Matt Bekier , had taken a 40 % pay cut and directors had cut their fees by 50 % .
Crown announced on Thursday it had lined up facilities with its banks for a total of $ 560 m and had agreed terms with the three banks funding the construction of its Barangaroo project to allow building to continue .
“ This facility [ for $ 450 m ] remains subject to final credit approvals and long - form documentation , ” Crown said .
It said its current cash balance of “ approximately $ 500 m , together with its ability to secure over $ 1bn in additional debt facilities ” , reflected “ Crown ’s strong financial position ” during the period of disruption .
It did not provide estimates of how long its cash would last .
Crown has now stood down about 95 % or more than 11,500 of its employees .
“ Only employees in business - critical functions remain actively working , ” the company said .
Ex - gratia payments of two weeks ’ pay were given to those full - time and part - time employees , while casuals were given a lump sum payment of $ 1,000 .
Staff were also allowed to draw down on existing annual and long - service leave .
Crown ’s chief executive , Ken Barton , and the board have taken 20 % cuts to their remuneration .
Including the new facility , the Star said it had available cash and undrawn debt facilities of $ 700 m. That , it said , would provide sufficient liquidity for an extended period of shutdown .
Unlike Crown , Star provided estimates of the rate it would burn through cash , saying it would need about $ 220 m in total under a three - month shutdown to 30 June and $ 320 m in total under a six - month shutdown to 30 September .
Those estimates include operating expenses , drawdowns by employees on accrued annual and long - service leave entitlements , payables offset by receivables , interest payments , and capital expenditure payments , Star said .
Star ’s expansion plans were at a much earlier stage .
Crown , however , is midway through the construction of its $ 2.2bn high - roller casino and apartment block at Barangaroo , which is designed to cater to VIP gamblers from China .
Many of the luxury units have also been sold to offshore investors .
“ Crown intends to continue construction of the Crown Sydney project as planned and , absent any further delays arising from the impact of Covid-19 , remains on track for completion of the Crown Sydney hotel resort by the end of the year , ” Crown said in the statement to the ASX A slowdown or halting of major construction projects would be a further blow to the Australian economy .
“ Currently , there are over 1,300 people employed on the construction of Crown Sydney , which is expected to be maintained until completion , ” the company said .
“ In the lead - up to the full opening of Crown Sydney , Crown expects to recruit over 2,000 people to work in the hotel resort . ”

Tributes paid to woman who escaped to UK from Nazi Germany in 1939 .
2020-04-15 15:27:08 +00:00 .
The family of Lore Gordon - who was among the German Jewish children evacuated to safety in Britain on the Kindertransport initiative - have paid tribute to her following her death at the age of 96 after contracting Covid-19 .
The virus , said her family , had achieved what Hitler and the Blitz failed to do – “ to quench an adventurous , positive and generous loving spirit ” .
Lore first came to Britain with her sister in 1939 at the age of 16 as one of 10,000 German Jewish children sent through the Kindertransport initiative as Nazi persecution accelerated .
While her mother was a Christian , the Heimann family were totally assimilated Jews in the liberal Rhenish town of Wuppertal in north Germany .
Her father , a chairman of the Jewish community , worked in a family department store until the Nazis caused it to close .
After the war , and his incarceration by the Nazis , he was appointed director of housing ,
A German cousin later thanked Lore for saving his life through her gathering of details of children , which she shared with her eventual husband , Alfred , then based in England after his own release from Dachau concentration camp , and who then worked for children ’s evacuation .
In England , she spent six happy weeks at Bromley Girls ’ grammar school improving her English
but , when the Nazis invaded the Low Countries in May 1940 , her classification as an “ enemy alien ” led to her being interned on the Isle of Man for several months .
Her status was eventually changed and she was able to throw herself into the war effort by working in a factory .
In 1942 she married Alfred , who had joined the British army , and trained as a teacher after bringing up three children , the eldest of whom , Richard , died aged 21 .
She worked at secondary schools for many years , teaching needlework as well as in English , maths and German .
Later generations would learn of the wartime efforts of Lore and her husband , who died in 2003 , through their recollections on television and also from the Imperial War Museum ( IWM ) , which collected an oral history from her .
Speaking in that oral history , she recalled her correspondence with Alfred when he was in England : “ He kept sending [ letters ] to me saying : give me names of children , I am trying to find homes for them .
I used to get them to him by return of post .
We kept all the names and he had quite a few . ”
“ At the end of his life he said : ‘ I have n’t achieved anything , ’ and I said : ‘ If you had saved one life … but look how many you have saved . ”
In the same history , she spoke of what life was like under the Nazis , saying : “ I ca n’t say I was frightened , but I realised other people were , especially the older generation . ”
She also recalled the moment when she and others , including children as young as four , stood by the windows of their train to say goodbye to their parents standing on a station platform .
“ My parents and other parents stood near to the window , sort of touching hands and the [ Nazi ] Brownshirts came along and pushed them away . ”
Her daughter , Margaret , spoke this week of Lore ’s “ positive nature and zest for life , her pragmatism , fairness , generosity , loving care and , above all , her infectious laugh and beaming smile that inspired many to take a gentler path ” .
“ She enriched so many people ’s lives that the world is a poorer place without her . ”
In her later years she moved back to the centre of Bromley , south - east London , after Alfred ’s death , before residing in two care homes .
She died on 31 March .
She is survived by family members including her daughter Margaret , son Barrie , grandchildren Corrina , Jacob , Joseph and Rosanna , and great - grandchildren Benjamin and Zia , and godson Martin .

Testing efforts led by ex-lobbyist who backed Hancock leadership bid .
2020-04-15 09:13:06 +00:00 .
The UK government ’s urgent efforts to ramp up coronavirus testing are being led by a hereditary peer and former corporate lobbyist who gave money to health secretary Matt Hancock ’s failed Conservative party leadership campaign .
Lord Bethell , a Tory party donor with limited ministerial experience , was hastily appointed last month as an unpaid minister at the Department of Health and Social Care ( DHSC ) where he is understood to have been made “ lead minister ” for testing .
Bethell , who until June 2018 ran an influential lobbying firm in Westminster ,
chaired Hancock ’s unsuccessful leadership bid last year and donated £ 5,000 to the campaign , according to Electoral Commission data .
He made a separate donation to the Conservatives later in 2019 .
The peer , who now works directly for Hancock , has one of the most important ministerial portfolios in the government ’s response to Covid-19 as it races to meet its target of conducting 100,000 tests a day by the end of April .
Testing is seen as critical to stopping the spread of the deadly virus and easing lockdown conditions .
In recent weeks , Bethell has steered emergency legislation through the House of Lords , headed the DHSC ’s emergency procurement efforts , and held discussions with senior US and Chinese government officials .
The new minister , otherwise known as the fifth Baron Bethell , entered the Lords in 2018 after winning a hereditary peers ’ byelection , decided by an electorate of 47 Conservative hereditary peers .
Bethell ’s peerage was originally bestowed on his great - grandfather in 1922 .
Before taking up his seat in Westminster , the peer ran lobbying and public relations firm Westbourne Communications , which advised companies such as the fracking firm Cuadrilla and taxi - sharing giant Uber .
According to his LinkedIn profile , he helped Uber by “ coordinating [ its ] fight against the black taxi driver ” .
Westbourne , which Bethell sold in 2018 , represented businesses with major NHS contracts , such as Ingeus UK and Healthlogistics .
In 2017 , Healthlogistics boasted how it had made “ major inroads into NHS trusts ” providing data management services to hospitals .
The lobbying firm was also reportedly behind the launch of Doctors for Reform , a campaign backed by the rightwing thinktank Reform , which advocated opening up the NHS to private healthcare providers and introducing insurance - based funding to the health system .
In a statement to the Guardian , a DHSC spokesman said : “ Lord Bethell brings considerable skills , qualifications and experience to the role . ”
He added : “ The government ’s response to coronavirus is based on the latest scientific evidence and we are working with a world renowned team of clinicians , public health experts and scientists around the clock to keep this country safe . ”
Bethell frequently posts updates on Twitter on DHSC ’s response to Covid-19 and last week shared a picture of himself with the prime minister ’s partner , Carrie Symonds , and their dogs .
In another tweet , he acknowledged the challenges facing the government : “ Hitting 100k tests a day is a massive target .
We ’ve huge obstacles to overcome . ”

Subversive cult comic revived in Spanish lockdown .
2020-04-15 04:11:54 +00:00 .
A cult comic from Spain ’s 1970s counter - culture has been relaunched online to help relieve the tedium of the nation ’s lockdown .
The subversive comic El Víbora ( The Viper ) published 300 issues between 1979 and 2005 but now it ’s back – briefly – by popular demand , according to the comic ’s Barcelona - based publisher , Emilio Bernárdez .
“ It ’s an act of solidarity with people who are bored at home , ” Bernárdez said .
“ We wanted to do something .
But we ’re not health workers so this is what we came up with .
We ’re very close to our readers and so many of them asked us to revive El Víbora we decided to bring out a special issue that brings together our contributors ’ favourite strips .
The response from the cartoonists has been fantastic . ”
The comic was always subtitled Comix for Survivors , in reference to those who had lived through Spain ’s 40 - year dictatorship , which ended with the death of General Franco in 1975 .
The publication will reappear as The Viper for Survivors , this time referring to Covid-19 .
Most of the content will be recycled from past issues but the front cover features a newly commissioned cartoon by Aroha Travé bearing the slogan “ Go fuck yourself , Covid-19 ” .
Bernárdez explained that , although they will only publish one issue , which can be accessed for free , it wo n’t all be published at once .
He said : “ Altogether it may run to 300 pages but we will publish around 40 pages a week .
There is so much material because so many contributors wanted to take part .
There are also new works that are about coronavirus .
We will publish every Wednesday until the end of the lockdown . ”
El Víbora played its part in Spain ’s transition , not just from dictatorship to democracy but from sexual and cultural repression .
Much of the counter - culture that emerged elsewhere in the 1960s was delayed by a decade in Spain , when it exploded in a frenzied and sometimes disastrous embrace of sex and drugs and rock’n’roll .
One reader , Joan Fumaz , who was 17 when the comic produced its first edition , said : “ To understand the impact of El Víbora you have to put yourself in the skin of an adolescent of that time .
“ Sex was taboo but I could buy this comic that had stuff about junkies , prostitutes and transvestites .
It opened our eyes .
We all read El Víbora , we all smoked weed , but we still had to go to Mass every Sunday and kiss the priest ’s ring and be told we were n’t old enough to make our own decisions .
“ I think my first decision before I became an adult was to buy El Víbora . ”
Gina Rosquelles , who was 20 at the time , said : “ El Víbora was a transgressive publication .
It had the air of something not exactly fresh but really different .
It was a real break from tradition and also carried a lot of suggestive images . ”
The comic followed in the tradition of the underground comic movement in the US and UK .
Leading cartoonists of the American movement , such as Robert Crumb and Gilbert Shelton , were among El Víbora ’s contributors .
Crumb has donated a cartoon for the coronavirus issue .
“ All subversive comics in Spain today owe something to El Víbora , ” claims Bernárdez .
At its peak , the comic had a monthly circulation of 80,000 copies .

Did Trump finally meet his match? Female reporters set him straight .
2020-04-14 18:32:30 +00:00 .
Donald Trump seems to have misplaced an entire six weeks recently : he is yet to account for what he did in the first six weeks after the first coronavirus case was confirmed in the US .
Yesterday , the CBS reporter Paula Reid was determined to ask him about it at a White House press conference .
“ How do you close down the greatest economy in the history of the world when , on January 17 , you have no cases [ of Covid-19 in the US ] and no deaths ? ”
he replied .
“ On January 21 , you have one case and no deaths .
Think of that , we ’re supposed to close down the country ? ”
In the exchange , the president highlights his decision to close US borders to China , and suggests that Democrats , in particular Joe Biden , accused him of xenophobia at the time .
But Reid was not convinced .
“ The argument is that you bought yourself some time .
But what did you do with that time ?
You did n’t use it to prepare hospitals , you did n’t use it to ramp up testing .
Right now , nearly 20 million are unemployed , tens of thousands of Americans are dead , ” says Reid .
In the ensuing debacle , Trump talks over her , raising his voice and calling Reid disgraceful – a pattern he seems to follow when taking to female journalists , and female journalists of color particularly .
Earlier this month , the PBS journalist Yamiche Alcindor had a similar interaction with Trump , during which he told her to “ be nice ” .
Alcindor stood her ground and held her line of questioning .
Trump continuously looks down during Reid ’s questioning , but if it ’s a script he is consulting , it does n’t seem very versatile .
“ What do you do when you have no cases in the whole United States – ” he begins , before Reid interjects : “ You had cases in February . ”
Reid does what all journalists who are facing Donald Trump should do : she demands an answer , she holds him to account , and she remains steadfast and unfazed while he ignores her questions and insults her instead .
“ Look , look , you know you ’re a fake .
You know that , your whole network , the way that you cover it is fake , ” responds Trump .
He goes on to ask about Joe Biden apologizing for closing the borders .
“ There are thousands of Americans dead right now , we do n’t care about why Joe Biden did n’t apologize to you , ” responds Reid .
Trump continues to give himself credit for closing borders in January .
But still , nobody knows what happened in February .

'They want the clubs to survive': Ligue 1 players ready to take 50% wage deferrals .
2020-04-14 17:20:05 +00:00 .
President Emmanuel Macron ’s Easter Monday announcement that lockdown would remain in place until 11 May confirmed the worst for football clubs in France .
While the Ligue de Football Professionnel , which runs the league , confirmed on the same day that it is looking to resume the season on 17 June , the brutal economic effects of the coronavirus pandemic on the sport are becoming clear .
There have been no matches in Ligue 1 since 16 March and that has caused the broadcasters beIN Sports and Canal+ to withhold payment of the latest instalment of their TV rights deal believed to have been worth around € 130 m.
There are fears that if the season can not be completed it may cost French clubs up to € 300 m in total .
The LFP is even looking into whether it can attract investment from a third - party to help support some of the clubs who are going to struggle to survive .
In England the Premier League is strong and so is the Football Association but in France all of the money goes to the clubs so the LFP or French football federation does not have the money to bail them out .
These are extraordinary times and everyone knows they must work together to make sure no club goes out of business .
Last week the players ’ union , the UNFP , agreed a deal with the LFP and the clubs ’ union that will see the majority defer their wages until the season is over .
Those who earn less than € 10,000 a month
will receive their whole salary , while those who are earning between € 10,000 and € 20,000 only 80 % , 70 % for € 20,000 to € 50,000 , 60 % for € 50,000 to € 100,000 and 50 % for the very top earners above € 100,000 a month .
If the players agree each player must sign a new contract with their club that says they agree with this deferment .
So there are a lot of contracts to be signed in the next few days .
In France it is expected the players will follow recommendations from Fifa about contracts ( and loans ) that are ending in June , which will mean they are extended until the season is completed .
They also wantto extend the transfer window and that is likely to happen .
The players want to help the clubs in any way they can .
You have all the people working as secretaries , in marketing , groundsmen and on matchdays who are really suffering at the moment and that is who they will be thinking about .
The players know they will get their money at the end of the season so it is just about trying to help get through this period .
It could even be a good thing for some of those who find it hard to save any of their money each month !
We have a process in France called chômage partiel in which the clubs pay 70 % of the gross salary to the players and the government pays back up to € 4,850 a month to the clubs .
But this new agreement between the UNFP , the LFP and the clubs ’ union is totally separate – it ’s an accord between the players and clubs to ensure we have financial security before they spend huge sums of money on salaries and image rights .
The average salary in Ligue 1 is € 94,000 before tax so the majority will be deferring almost half of their wages until this is all over .
For someone such as Neymar , who is reportedly earning € 3.1 m a month , that is a massive contribution
but I think he totally understands the situation and wants to help .
I think every player has solidarity towards the clubs and hopefully their sacrifices can help us through this difficult time .
Badou Sambague is a former international player for Mali who is now a qualified lawyer running a law firm called BS LAW and player agency called BS GROUP .

France to remain in strict lockdown for another month .
2020-04-13 19:31:56 +00:00 .
France ’s president Emmanuel Macron has announced that the country will remain in coronavirus lockdown for another month .
In a national address on Monday evening , he said that only by respecting the confinement rules would the battle against Covid-19 be won .
Macron said France would start returning to normal life on 11 May , if citizens were “ civic , responsible and respected the rules ” – and if the number of virus cases continued to drop .
“ We have to continue our efforts ; the more the rules are respected the more lives will be saved .
That is why I am announcing the strict lockdown will continue until Monday 11 May. ”
He said : “ I appreciate the effort I am asking of you , ” adding : “ There is new hope but nothing is won at the moment … the epidemic is not under control . ”
It was Macron ’s fourth televised address since the beginning of the coronavirus crisis and expectations were high , not just that he would make concrete announcements but that he would give some direction and reassurance .
Hospital admissions and death rates appear to have levelled off – though as Jérôme Salomon , the head of the French health authority , has repeated , they remain at a “ high level ” – and the French were keen to know if and when the four - week lockdown restrictions might be eased .
In a 30 - minute speech marked by a tone of humility , Macron gave an explanation , a response and a calendar for the next few weeks .
He admitted several times that there had been failings in dealing with the pandemic , particularly with the lack of masks and equipment , but promised that by 11 May there would be enough tests for “ the elderly , health workers and the most vulnerable ” and masks for everyone .
“ Were we prepared ?
No .
Clearly not enough .
There were failings , there was a lack of material , ” he said .
Macron added that the coming four weeks would be used to obtain more tests , masks and equipment , and organise financial aid not only for businesses but for those families in a precarious situation .
“ These are difficult days and we are now feeling afraid and anxious for our parents and ourselves , ” Macron said .
From 11 May , creches , schools , colleges and lycées will be “ progressively opened ” as a priority , he said .
“ Many children are missing out of school and there is an inequality in that there are those who do n’t have access to the internet and ca n’t be helped by their parents . ”
While schools will open from 11 May , Macrons said restaurants , cafes , hotels , museums and cultural sites must stay closed and large festivals and events may only be allowed after mid - July .
Macron made reference to European Union solidarity and the need to support African countries , including the possibility of cancelling their debt .
He said that France ’s borders with non - EU countries would remain closed .
This is not thought to include the UK , as Britain is still in the Brexit transition period .
He concluded : “ We have to reinvent ourselves , and me first of all , ” he added .
“ We are vulnerable .
When can we hope for an end to this ?
I understand you have many questions
and I would like to answer all of them .
But I say in all humility , we do n’t have definitive answers today .
“ We will share with you what we know and what we do n’t know , we will come out of this , but we still have several months of living with this virus .
“ We will have better days , we will find again happy days .
And the virtues that will allow us to get through this are the same that will help us build our future : solidarity , confidence , willingness .
Take care of yourselves and each other and we will get through this . ”

Fauci confirms NY Times report Trump rebuffed social distancing advice .
2020-04-12 19:30:35 +00:00 .
Prominent US public health adviser Dr Anthony Fauci appeared on Sunday to confirm a bombshell New York Times report which said he and other Trump administration officials recommended the implementation of social distancing to combat the coronavirus in February , but were rebuffed for almost a month .
Fauci appeared on CNN ’s State of the Union .
Asked why the administration did not act when he and other officials advised , he said : “ You know … as I have said many times , we look at it from a pure health standpoint .
We make a recommendation .
Often , the recommendation is taken .
Sometimes , it ’s not .
“ … It is what it is .
We are where we are right now . ”
More than 530,000 cases of Covid-19 have now been confirmed in the US , with almost 21,000 deaths .
Officials currently expect a death toll of around 60,000 by August .
CNN host Jake Tapper asked if Fauci thought “ lives could have been saved if social distancing , physical distancing , stay - at - home measures had started [ in the ] third week of February , instead of mid - March . ”
“ It ’s very difficult to go back and say that , ” Fauci said .
“ I mean , obviously , you could logically say , that if you had a process that was ongoing , and you started mitigation earlier , you could have saved lives .
Obviously , no one is going to deny that .
“ But what goes into those kinds of decisions is complicated .
But you ’re right .
I mean , obviously , if we had , right from the very beginning , shut everything down , it may have been a little bit different .
But there was a lot of pushback about shutting things down back then . ”
Since the White House issued social distancing guidelines on 16 March , much of the country has gone into lockdown , shuttering the economy and leading to unprecedented and potentially ruinous unemployment .
Chafing against such conditions in an election year , Donald Trump has been voicing an eagerness to reopen the economy as early as 1 May. On Sunday , Fauci , other experts and governors of hard - hit states were skeptical .
Phil Murphy , governor of New Jersey , the state with the highest death toll after New York , told CBS ’s Face the Nation : “ If we start to get back on our feet too soon … we could be throwing gasoline on the fire . ”
One of Trump ’s most vocal supporters in the US media , Fox News host Sean Hannity , followed the president in attacking the Times .
“ Hey [ Maggie Haberman ] , ” Hannity tweeted , to one of six reporters on the byline of Saturday ’s report .
“ … You should Thank [ Trump ] for the Travel Ban(s ) put in place while you and [ New York Times ] were fixated on impeachment and advising people to travel to China .
# NYTimesEpicFail . ”
Trump restricted travel from China before travel from Europe .
The Times has reported that scientists believe most of the first Covid-19 cases in New York came from Europe , reporting which has prompted presidential tweets .
In reply to Hannity , Haberman wrote : “ Weird .
Six bylines on our story about how the president handled the growing threat of the coronavirus but just one he ’s focused on .
Something there
but I ca n’t put my finger on it ... ”
The only female reporter on the Times story also tweeted footage of Fauci ’s remarks .
“ This is confirmation of our story , ” she wrote , “ which focused on various moments the president had to take the threat more seriously and did n’t , in no small part due to the culture of government he ’s created . ”

Coronavirus deaths in UK hospitals surpass 10,000 .
2020-04-12 15:47:48 +00:00 .
The number of people with coronavirus who have died in UK hospitals has topped 10,000 .
The total number of hospital deaths stood at 10,612 on Sunday , up by 737 from 9,875 the day before .
For the last two days , more than 900 deaths have been recorded in hospitals in the UK ’s official death toll .
On Saturday the government said 917 people had died in hospitals over the previous 24 hours , while on Friday the equivalent number for the previous day was 980 – the highest so far .
France is the only country in Europe to have exceeded 980 deaths in day .
But unlike the UK , France includes care home deaths in its figures .
France , Spain and Italy have all recorded more total deaths than the UK ’s tally for hospital deaths but those countries are now past the peak of the outbreak , while the UK ’s figures are expected to continue to rise for at least two more weeks .
Concerns were growing on Sunday that the UK will end up with the highest number of Covid-19 deaths of any European country .
Before the four countries released their figures , Sir Jeremy Farrar , the director of the Wellcome Trust , and a member of the Sage committee , which advises the government on the pandemic , told BBC One ’s Andrew Marr Show : “ The numbers in the UK have continued to go up .
I do hope we ’re coming close to the number of new infections reducing … and the number of deaths plateauing and starting to come down .
“
And yes , the UK is likely to be certainly one of the worst , if not the worst affected country in Europe . ”
Prof Sylvia Richardson , president elect of the Royal Statistical Society and co - chair of the Royal Statistical Society task force on Covid-19 , said : “ Countries like South Korea and Germany , which are able to pursue testing of acute Covid-19 infections followed by isolation on a massive scale , the universally agreed first line policy for controlling an epidemic , have experienced better trajectories so far .
This was the initial strategy followed by PHE in the UK but was not sustained as we did not have the testing capacity at that time .
Ramping up testing capacity as outlined by the government is key to being able to restore such a strategy . ”
The new deaths of patients in England , announced on Sunday , were of people aged between 26 and 100 years old and 42 ( aged between 30 and 98 years old ) had no known underlying health condition .
NHS England said 121 occurred on 11 April , while 531 took place between 1 April and 10 April .
The remaining five deaths occurred in March , with the earliest new death taking place on March 26 .

World's first virtual design festival launches in response to Covid-19 .
2020-04-10 12:19:06 +00:00 .
The global design community has collaborated to launch the first virtual design festival in response to the coronavirus lockdown .
Products and talks from the schedules of Design Indaba and Stockholm , San Francisco and Vienna Design Weeks will appear alongside performances and exhibitions from the Serpentine Gallery , the London Festival of Architecture and New York architecture conference
The World Around .
All have been closed or cancelled due to Covid-19 .
The Virtual Design Festival ( VDF ) – which runs from 15 April to 30 June – was conceived by the team at interiors and architecture digital magazine Dezeen .
“ The architecture and design world has been affected by the pandemic , with key trade events and festivals cancelled and practitioners having to find new ways to sustain their business , ” says Marcus Fairs , editor - in - chief of Dezeen .
“ It felt natural to come up with an online platform to showcase projects and connect architects , designers , and creatives across the globe . ”
Planned events include gigs by award - winning experimental singer - songwriter Beatie Wolfe and pianist and sound designer Rosey Chan , a programme of interviews organised by New York ’s The Metropolitan Museum of Arts architecture and design curator Beatrice Galilee for Earth Day ( 22 April ) and a digital exhibition of work created by architect and artist Ron Arad , who calls the VDF “ a great initiative to bring us together at this extraordinary time ” .
Arad ’s pieces are from his DFWTM series of artworks ( a set of 20 fibreglass seat - like structures ) .
“ There ’s a piece I made on 31 January – the day we left the EU .
I bought the newspapers of the day – all screaming Brexit – on the way to the studio .
They were cut , torn and embedded in unset polyester .
We thought we were ‘ freezing ’ the most life - changing day in the UK .
Little did we know . ”
• The Virtual Design Festival runs from 15 April to 30 June .

New Zealand election: Ardern resists calls for delay amid Covid-19 outbreak .
2020-04-09 02:49:31 +00:00 .
Jacinda Ardern has refused to postpone New Zealand ’s September elections over the coronavirus pandemic , despite calls for a delay from her deputy and the deputy opposition leader .
On Thursday New Zealand recorded a significant drop in corona cases for the fourth day in a row , with just 29 new infections , 21 fewer than the previous day .
Winston Peters , the deputy prime minister , told Radio NZ his party , New Zealand First , had always preferred 21 November for the poll , and believed the coronavirus crisis meant the later date “ makes even more sense ” now .
Deputy opposition leader Paula Bennett has questioned whether the public would be ready for a poll .
“ In the last couple of days I ’ve just been wondering just how ready would the public be for a September 19 election , ” she said .
“ Is it fair to them and fair to our whole democratic system to be asking them to go through that ? ” Ardern nominated the 19 September date back in January , and when questioned on Thursday she said the date would remain , saying there were too many unknowns at this stage to make a definitive decision on changing it .
“ It is soo soon … to make a determination of where we will be even in a month ’s time from now , ” Ardern said .
“ I do n’t want to make a judgment yet , it will depend on what alert level we are at if people can even get out and vote . ”
Constitutionally , she can push the date back to Peters ’ preferred date in November , but she has previously declined such a move on several occasions .
Ardern ’s Labour party governs with the support of minority parties NZ First and the Greens , ahead of New Zealand ’s most popular party , National .
The most recent polling has NZ First dropping out of parliament , leaving a dogfight between the left - leaning parties and National for a majority .
No public polling has been released since the outbreak of Covid-19 .
After mounting pressure Ardern also announced that all arrivals into New Zealand would be forced into mandatory quarantine at 14 Auckland hotels for a minimum of 14 days .
Ardern said New Zealand ’s borders were its greatest asset in the fight against corona but also its weak point , with the majority of the country ’s 1200 cases still having links to overseas travel .
Thursday marked two weeks since the country entered strict lockdown measures , and the prime minister thanked New Zealanders for their efforts , and restated there would be no early end to the shutdown .
“ In the face of the greatest threat to human health we have seen in over a century , Kiwis have quietly and collectively implemented a nationwide wall of defence , ” she said .
“ You are breaking the chain of transmission .
And you did it for each other . ”
The government will make a decision on whether to end or ease out of the lockdown on 20 April , two days before its scheduled end date .
Ardern was clear that whatever form the lockdown easing takes , Kiwis would only be moving from a level four to a level three , and many restrictions to freedom and movement would still apply .

Family of four found dead in West Sussex all had shotgun wounds .
2020-04-08 12:19:35 +00:00 .
A family of four including two young children , who were found dead at their home in West Sussex , all suffered shotgun wounds , a coroner has heard .
The bodies of Robert Needham , Kelly Fitzgibbons and their children , Ava Needham , four , and Lexi Needham , two , were discovered on 29 March , along with that of their dog .
Police found what they believe is the murder weapon in the large detached house in the village of Woodmancote , near Chichester .
The West Sussex force has not given details about what they believed happened but at the opening of the inquests on the four deaths , senior coroner Penelope Schofield said Robert Needham ’s inquest may be separated from the rest of the family .
She added : “ We are keeping inquests together at the moment but there may need for this to be changed .
It depends on requests from the family as to whether they want the inquest of the perpetrator to be held separately . ”
Tributes were paid in court to legal secretary Fitzgibbons , 40 .
Her sister , Emma Ambler , said : “ Kelly was a wonderful and special person .
She was kind , caring , funny and always smiling with an amazing love for life .
“ Kelly was a dedicated and loving mother and adored Rob and her two beautiful children .
She had many friends and was devoted to her friends and family .
“ Kelly will be missed by so many people and has left a hole in our hearts that will never be filled . ”
Discussing the circumstances of her death , coroner ’s officer Melanie Doyle told the hearing : “ Kelly Fitzgibbons was found deceased inside her home address .
“ She had injuries consistent with the use of a shotgun , which was also found within the house .
The bodies of her partner and their two children were also found at the house . ”
The inquest heard that Fitzgibbons died from shotgun injuries to the head and neck .
Her two young daughters died from shotgun wounds to the head and chest .
Needham , a 40 - year - old builder , also died from shotgun injuries , which the coroner said were to his neck and head .
Sussex police ’s investigation continues into the deaths , which the force believes were an isolated incident .
Officers have so far refused to confirm who is suspected of carrying out the killings .
The tragedy was discovered when police received a report from someone concerned for the welfare of the family .
Just two days before , Fitzgibbons posted on social media pictures of Robert and her children on their “ walk for the day ” during the coronavirus lockdown .
At the time a neighbour said : “ There was no evidence previously that there was a problem . ”
Police are continuing to investigate whether the weapon was legally held .
Posting a picture of the children on Facebook after their deaths , their grandmother , Maureen Needham , said : “ It was Robert , Kelly and my lovely grandchildren that all died upstairs . ”
A provisional date for the full inquest has been set for 6 October .

Jakarta to start shutdown as burials, and fears, rise amid coronavirus outbreak .
2020-04-08 03:27:27 +00:00 .
Schools and workplaces will be closed in the Indonesian capital , Jakarta , as greater restrictions are imposed to slow the spread of coronavirus in the city , where a sudden rise in burials has raised concerns over undetected cases .
President Joko Widodo has previously resisted lockdown measures imposed in many other south - east Asian nations , but there are fears infections are not being spotted by authorities .
So far , officials have confirmed 2,738 cases of coronavirus , and 221 deaths , most of which have occurred in Jakarta .
But the country of 264 million is reportedly able to process only 240 of the most accurate tests a day and is instead relying on rapid tests that are less effective .
The central government has been accused of failing to act quickly , after initially downplaying the threat of the virus in the country .
It was n’t until 2 March that a first case was confirmed in Indonesia , prompting fears that the virus may have been left to spread , especially in the country ’s densely populated capital .
Last week , Reuters reported an unexplained surge in burials in Jakarta in March , when 4,400 people were buried , 40 % more than any month since at least January 2018 .
Health workers have warned hospitals could be quickly overwhelmed , while groups including Amnesty International Indonesia have urged the government to provide enough personal protective equipment for hospital staff , after at least 18 doctors died while treating patients .
The city ’s governor , Anies Baswedan , has been seeking tougher lockdown restrictions to stop transmission , but such calls had been rejected by the central government .
On Tuesday , health minister Terawan Agus Putranto signed an order allowing Jakarta ’s administration to introduce stricter measures .
It was later announced that these new restrictions , which will last at least two weeks , include closures of schools and workplaces and limits on religious events and cultural activities .
Baswedan had already declared a state of emergency , and told businesses and religious groups to take measures to stop the spread of the virus , but such guidance was only voluntary .
He told a news conference on Tuesday evening that the mandatory restrictions would start on Friday with workplaces closing except for eight sectors such as health , energy , food , and finance , including the capital market .
Public transport hours and passenger capacity will also be cut to reduce the risk of people passing on the virus .
Groups of more than five people in public spaces will be banned and police patrols increased to enforce compliance .
“ We will do everything strictly , ” Baswedan said .
“ Our interest is to control the spread of [ Covid-19 ] . ”
There has been friction between Indonesia ’s central and local governments over physical distancing measures , with some regional leaders attempting to lock down provincial borders to stem the spread of the coronavirus .
Hundreds of thousands of Jakarta residents have left in recent weeks for their home villages to find a safe haven , or after losing their jobs , officials said .
There are also growing fears that the annual exodus of tens of millions of people to homes across the nation ’s archipelago for Ramadan would accelerate the outbreak .
Indonesian authorities said last week cash handouts would go to poor families to persuade them to stay in Jakarta , but the government rejected calls for a ban on the “ mudik ” , as the traditional Ramadan migration is called locally .

Uruguay to repatriate Australian passengers from Covid-19 stricken ship .
2020-04-07 22:03:27 +00:00 .
An Australian cruise company is working to disembark a stricken Antarctic cruise ship on which around 60 % of the passengers and crew have been infected with coronavirus .
The Greg Mortimer has been anchored 20 km off the coast of Uruguay since 27 March , but authorities in the South American country had until now refused to allow passengers to disembark .
On Tuesday , the ship ’s operator , Aurora Expeditions said that of 132 passengers and 85 crew , 128 people had tested positive for Covid-19 .
Most on board are understood to be Australian , although there are also citizens of New Zealand , the US and the UK .
“ We found a ship where almost everyone has been infected , ” said Karina Rando , one of 21 Uruguayan doctors dispatched to the ship .
“ We ’ve done our utmost to prevent our own infection .
Most of the passengers are well . ”
Many of those who tested positive are still asymptomatic , but could still be at risk , said Rando .
“ There are many patients over 70 years of age , some of them with other chronic conditions such as heart and lung diseases , ” she said .
“ Those patients may fall seriously ill tomorrow even if they looked well today . ”
The $ 65 m ship set out on 15 March from the Argentinian port of Ushuaia , the southernmost city in the world .
It was to have undertaken a 16 - day cruise to Antarctica and South Georgia , christened “ In Shackleton ’s Footsteps ” after the British polar explorer .
Symptoms of coronavirus started to appear soon after departure , and the ship diverted to the Uruguayan capital Montevideo .
Even the ship ’s doctor fell ill with a fever and was left unable to perform his duties .
“ We have made it clear that the ill health and the isolation of the crew is making it difficult to maintain the same standard of essential services onboard , ” Aurora Expeditions told passengers on 2nd of April .
Uruguay denied permission for the ship to dock , and also refused to allow passengers or crew to disembark .
That decision was eventually reversed at the weekend , when a Uruguayan naval vessel was dispatched to the Greg Mortimer to remove six gravely ill passengers and take them to the British Hospital in Montevideo .
On Saturday the Uruguayan navy tweeted a video of a passenger – reportedly a British woman with pneumonia in both lungs – leaping from the moving cruise ship to the military vessel to be taken to hospital in the Uruguayan capital .
“ The people on the ship are calm but they are eager to go home , ” Marcelo Girard , a doctor at a Uruguayan medical facility where two people from the cruise ship are being treated , told the AP .
Passengers from Australia and New Zealand will board an emergency flight bound for Melbourne on Thursday , Uruguayan authorities confirmed on Tuesday afternoon .
The cost per passenger is about $ 9,300 and the cruise ship operator has asked the Australian government for help with expenses .
On landing , the passengers will undergo a mandatory 14 - day quarantine .
Other passengers will have to wait longer .
“ We have been advised that European and American passengers that have tested positive to Covid-19 , unfortunately must wait until they have a negative test result after which we will be able to organise their departure via Sao Paulo and then to their final destination , ” the company said .
Uruguay has 406 confirmed cases of coronavirus and six deaths .

What I’m really watching: living room comedy and upscale junk food .
2020-04-07 13:59:39 +00:00 .
Like many people , I was trying to use my phone a bit less this year , and then coronavirus came along and added some pretty essential phone - based tasks to my day – among them listening to podcasts about the failings of the UK government , hanging out with friends on video app du jour Houseparty , and even doing therapy via FaceTime .
( All fun and games until you accidentally put your finger over the camera seven times in a minute . )
I had been trying to wean myself off Twitter before the crisis , but Alistair Green ’s skits keep pulling me back to it .
He ’s a comedian who is insanely good at social media , and who specialises in Limmy - ish , David Brent - esque visions of terrible middle - Englanders .
His coronavirus content has been particularly impressive , offering light relief by sending up prejudice and delving into farce .
Highlights include a woman whose husband wo n’t eat Chinese food any more , though carbonara is fine ; a mock press conference where the PM zones out to think about hot buttery toast ; and parental video call fails , all filmed solo and fuss - free in Green ’s living room .
After briefly trying to get into TikTok – which I have decided is mostly just videos of footballers I ’ve not heard of doing viral dance challenges – I ’m back with everyone else over the age of 14 on YouTube .
In particular , the Bon Appétit Test Kitchen has reeled me in .
The US food magazine ’s content seems to have become A Thing in the past year , but I ’d never really got it .
I love cooking , I read cookbooks when I ’m bored , and Nigel Slater ’s programmes are among the only shows I can rewatch endlessly , but did I need to get into a cultish online cookery channel , too ?
The answer was yes , especially when you ’ve got strands such as It ’s Alive , in which lovely , laid - back Brad ferments things – perfect for our own new normal , where making your own mustard is a great way to kill a few hours – or Reverse Engineering , in which perfectly uptight Chris tweaks and retweaks recipes in order to replicate a mystery dish .
Then there ’s upscale junk - food queen Claire ’s Gourmet Makes , featuring something called pizza rolls that got slightly lost in translation .
Bon Appétit is n’t the stuff of vomit - inducing viral videos , though , where someone puts cheddar cheese and cookie dough into a pie or something .
Rather , it ’s a place that treats food as both artful and functional , making it ideal vicarious viewing when cooking feels like an anchor to long days and even longer weekends .
And then there ’s telly .
I ’ve been getting through it more quickly than I ever have in my six months of working on the Guardian TV desk , but , admittedly , there ’s a fair amount of half - watching and double - screening going on .
I ’ve been in the mood for an improbable thriller to get lost in , and The Nest ( BBC One ) , about a wealthy couple using a deprived teenager , has delivered .
Incredible loch - side setting ?
Check .
Completely wild plot ?
Check .
Line of Duty ’s Martin Compston using his real Scottish accent ?
Check .
Potential for one , if not all , of its leads to end up a cold - blooded killer ?
Check .
I ’ve been eagerly collating my completely unproven theories , and watching along with the linear broadcasts rather than skipping ahead so that I can drag its five episodes out as much as possible .
Whether it ’s Twitter comedy , food porn or an improbable drama , there ’s really no need to binge it all in one go now , is there ?
Unless it ’s Tiger King – definitely , definitely binge that .

