Religious Events Will Have To ‘Adapt’ Around Coronavirus: Theresa Tam .
2020-04-05 23:09:49 +00:00 .
As major events like Easter and Ramadan approach , Canada ’s chief public health officer is urging religious leaders to keep their celebrations in line with social distancing measures .
During a COVID-19 update Sunday , Dr. Theresa Tam ran through a list of self - isolation reminders , for everyone from recent travellers to the faithful getting ready for springtime religious events .
“ Even our most important religious observances , like Easter and Ramadan will need to be adapted , ” she said .
“ I ask all religious leaders to be part of Team Canada ’s efforts on physical distancing , to help us plank the curve of this epidemic . ”
Tam ’s reminder comes after many religious organizations have already made the move to shut down or stop in - person gatherings .
Canada 's chief public health officer , Dr. Theresa Tam , attends a news conference in Ottawa on March 23 , 2020 .
( Photo : Blair Gable / Reuters )
More
In Rome , Pope Francis is set to hold the first Easter mass without a public audience on April 12 .
The Vatican has been live - streaming the Pope ’s daily mass since March 9 after Italy ’s rising novel coronavirus death toll put the entire country under lockdown .
In Canada , leaders have been following the Vatican ’s strategy , shutting down in - person services and closing parish offices .
Toronto ’s archbishop , Cardinal Thomas Collins , advised churches to close — even for individual prayer — and released a schedule of masses that are set to be live - streamed .
Ontario has prohibited gatherings of more than five people , with exceptions made for large households .
Jurisdictions around the country have implemented similar restrictions varying in size .
The Canadian Council of Imams released a joint statement with the Muslim Medical Association of Canada March 12 asking for all prayer spaces to be closed down until Apr. 5 or further .
Ramadan is set to begin on April 23 .
“ As Muslims , we must do our part to reduce the spread of this virus , ” said the statement .
“ In this difficult time , we must remain calm . ”
In lieu of a live stream , some mosques have decided to host online lectures through YouTube , Facebook and Zoom , an online video conferencing service commonly used for group meetings .
Pope Francis delivers the weekly Angelus prayer , streamed via video over the internet from inside the Vatican on March 29 , 2020 .
( Photo : Vatican Media / Reuters )
More
The council has also released guidelines around burials during the COVID-19 pandemic .
They call for those involved in funerals to be healthy , take extensive precautionary measures and advise that viewings only include close family members .
Story continues

Bronx Zoo tiger becomes first of its kind to test positive for coronavirus, officials say .
2020-04-05 23:02:40 +00:00 .
NEW YORK - Federal officials confirmed a tiger at the Bronx Zoo tested positive for COVID-19 , the first known instance of a tiger being infected with the virus .
Nadia , a four - year - old Malayan tiger , was tested after her sister Azul , two Amur tigers and three African lions developed a dry cough .
The animals are all expected to recover .
" We tested the cat out of an abundance of caution and will ensure any knowledge we gain about COVID-19 will contribute to the world ’s continuing understanding of this novel coronavirus , " said the Wildlife Conservation Society , which manages the Bronx Zoo .
The United States Department of Agriculture ’s National Veterinary Services Laboratories confirmed the tests on Sunday and is working with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention along with state animal and public health leaders to determine whether animals , at the zoo or in other areas , should be tested for COVID-19 .
The USDA said there have not been reports of pets being infected with COVID-19 in the United States , but recommended that people with COVID-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the virus .
If a sick person must care for a pet or be around animals , they should wash their hands before and after the interaction , the department said .
Coronavirus updates : British PM Boris Johnson hospitalized
Officials believe the Bronx Zoo animals became sick after being exposed to a zoo employee who was " actively shedding virus .
"
According to the zoo , the person caring for the large cats was either " asymptomatically infected with the virus " or cared for the animals " before that person developed symptoms .
"
" Appropriate preventive measures are now in place for all staff who are caring for them , and the other cats in our four WCS zoos , to prevent further exposure of any other of our zoo cats , " the conservation society said .
The zoo has been closed to the public since mid - March , and the first tiger began showing signs of sickness on March 27 .
No other animals at the zoo are showing symptoms of the virus , according to the USDA .
Follow Jessie Gomez on Twitter :
@jessiereport Domestic travel policies , explained : If you 're traveling between states , here 's where you 'll have to self - quarantine
Governors warn of dire ventilator shortages as virus pandemic rages : Trump says some are playing ' politics '
This article originally appeared on NorthJersey.com :
Bronx Zoo tiger , Nadia , tests positive for coronavirus ,
USDA says

Indianapolis 500 moved to August 23 due to coronavirus .
2020-04-05 22:59:36 +00:00 .
The 104th Indianapolis 500 was moved from May 24 to August 23 on Thursday by IndyCar and the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic .
It will mark the first time the US classic on the famed 2 1/2 - mile ( 4 km ) oval will be staged outside of May since its 1911 debut , with Frenchman Simon Pagenaud looking to defend his title .
Organizers also moved the IndyCar Grand Prix of Indianapolis , which had been scheduled for May 9 on the road course at the Speedway , to July 4 -- the American Independence Day holiday -- as part of a revamped IndyCar season schedule .
" The Month of May at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway is my favorite time of year , and like our fans , I am disappointed that we have had to reschedule the Indianapolis 500 , " series and speedway owner Roger Penske said .
" However , the health and safety of our event participants and spectators is our top priority , and we believe that postponing the event is the responsible decision with the conditions and restrictions we are facing .
" I 'm confident we will welcome fans with a transformed facility and a global spectacle when we run the world 's greatest race . "
The Indy 500 will begin with practice sessions August 12 - 14 and qualifying on August 15 - 16 with a final practice session on August 21 .
" This August , we 'll also have a unique and powerful opportunity to honor the contributions and heroism of the doctors , nurses , first responders and National Guard members serving on the front lines of the fight against COVID-19 , " Penske Entertainment president Mark Miles said .
" We 're grateful for the patience of our fans as we 've navigated this situation . "
The Indy Grand Prix will open an unprecedented double - header featuring the first Indy road course race for NASCAR , the closed - cockpit stock car series that is the most popular form of US auto racing .
" For very good reason , this historic pairing will be circled on the calendar of every motorsports fan , " speedway president J. Douglas Boles said .
" We appreciate our friends at NASCAR for their flexibility and support in this matter and will work with them on a memorable , exciting weekend of racing action . "
Enhanced coronavirus safety measures will be used at the speedway , including more hand sanitizer stations , less hand - to - hand contact between fans and concession staff , more frequent facility cleaning and cleaning products that meet health expert standards for coronavirus disinfectants .
- ' expected finale TBD ' -
Moving the Indy 500 required shifting two other races on a 2020 IndyCar schedule now shrunk from 17 to 14 races with Alabama , Long Beach and Austin , Texas , events cancelled due to the pandemic .
To accomodate the Indy 500 shift , an August 16 race at Mid - Ohio was moved to August 9 and the Gateway 500 near St. Louis will be contested August 30 , eight days later than originally planned .
The season is now set to open with two Dual in Detroit street races May 30 - 31 as planned followed by races at Texas , Road America and Richmond before the Indy Grand Prix and races as scheduled in Toronto and Iowa .
After the revamped August run , IndyCar concludes with events at Portland and Laguna Seca but IndyCar listed an " expected finale TBD " 14th race on the streets of St. Petersburg , Florida .
The Florida street race was to have been the season opener on March 15 before being called off .
The Indianapolis 500 has been moved to August 23 because of the coronavirus pandemic

Slack To Integrate With Microsoft Teams For Cross-Platform Calls .
2020-04-05 22:18:45 +00:00 .
Slack Technologies Inc. ( NYSE : WORK ) is integrating with competitor Microsoft Corporation ( NASDAQ : MSFT )
Teams to let users make cross - platform calls .
What Happened " We 're working on Teams integrations for calling features , " the workplace communications company 's chief executive officer Stewart Butterfield told RBC analyst Alex Zukin on a call , as reported by CNBC .
The feature would allow Slack users to be able to directly call users of Teams , without needing to leave its platform .
It 's not immediately clear when the integration will happen .
Slack already has other Microsoft products integrated with its platform , including Outlook , OneDrive , and SharePoint , as noted earlier by CNBC .
The move comes as the novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) outbreak has caused a remote work boom .
The demand for telecommunication services has increased , including for other companies like Zoom Video Communications Inc. ( NASDAQ : ZM ) and Cisco Systems Inc. 's ( NASDAQ : CSCO )
Webex .
Slack 's simultaneously connected users jumped 20 % between March 16 and March 25 at 12.5 million .
Microsoft earlier reported that Teams added 12 million daily active users between March 11 and March 18 .
Teams was launched two years after Slack in 2016 but has overtaken it in terms of daily active users , especially due to its popularity with big firms , as a CNBC survey found last year .
Price Action Slack 's shares closed 10.05 % higher at $ 28.48 on Thursday and added another 0.56 % at $ 28.64 in the after - hours session .
Microsoft stock closed 6.26 % higher at $ 156.11 per share .
The shares traded slightly lower at $ 155.69 in the after - hours session .
See more from Benzinga © 2020 Benzinga.com .
Benzinga does not provide investment advice .
All rights reserved .

Queen makes rare public speech in response to COVID-19 pandemic .
2020-04-05 21:01:53 +00:00 .
WINDSOR , United Kingdom — The Queen addressed Great Britain , the Commonwealth , and the world in a rare speech calling for unity in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic .
The Queen thanked front - line workers fighting the global pandemic and encouraged people to stay home in the statement issued on Sunday .
Although the speech focused on Great Britain , the Queen appealed to anyone watching her .
" While we have faced challenges before , this one is different .
This time we join with all nations across the globe in a common endeavour using the greatest advances of science , and our instinctive compassion to heal , " she said .
" We will succeed .
And that success will belong to every one of us .
We should take comfort that while we may have more still to endure , better days will return .
" We will be with our friends again .
We will be with our families again .
We will meet again . "
The Queen has addressed the Commonwealth every Christmas Day since she ascended to the throne in 1952 , but it 's only the fifth time in her 68 - year reign that she has spoken specifically to rally Britons .
She also addressed Great Britain at the beginning of the first Gulf War in February 1991 , on the death of Diana , Princess of Wales , in September 1997 on the death of the Queen Mother in April 2002 , and in June 2012 to celebrate her own Diamond Jubilee .
The Queen , 93 , noted that her very first public address was made in 1940 when she and her sister , Princess Margaret , addressed other children displaced by the Second World War .
" Today , once again , many will feel a painful sense of separation from their loved ones , " she said in the statement that was recorded on Thursday at Windsor Castle , her main residence . "
But now , as then , we know deep down that it is the right thing to do . "
Unity was the primary theme of the Queen 's speech , stressing the importance of restrictions on public gatherings and slowing the spread of the novel coronavirus .
" Together we are tackling this disease and I want to reassure you that if we remain united and resolute , then we will overcome it , " she said .
" I hope in the years to come everyone will be able to take pride in how they responded to this challenge . "
This report by The Canadian Press was first published on April 5 , 2020 .
The Canadian Press

Starboard’s Opportunistic Buying Of Commvault .
2020-04-05 20:46:03 +00:00 .
By March 12 , when the SP 500 Index was already down 15 % and lockdowns in response to the COVID-19 pandemic were starting to become normalized , new activist stakes slowed to a minimum .
Excluding governance - only campaigners and companies below $ 100 million in market - capitalization , there have been just over 20 in the past three weeks – many of those the result of months or years of work or re - entries , such Starbucks and Chef ’s Warehouse , where activists retreated to what they know .
Amidst the noise , Starboard Value ’s purchase of a 9.3 % stake in Commvault Systems ( NASDAQ : CVLT ) shows what opportunistic buying might look like .
The hedge fund was buying call options at the end of February , according to a regulatory filing , but started buying the data management company ’s shares in earnest as it began to recover from its lows after March 18 – stopping nine days later .
Starboard did not respond to a request for comment .
A Commvault spokeswoman would n’t comment on whether Starboard had engaged with the board or management team but told me the company " embraces open dialogue with our entire shareholder community and will continue to act in their best interest . "
Jeff Smith Starboard Value
More Activist Insight Vulnerability had suggested that this former target of Elliott Management might soon find itself in the crosshairs of an activist again as recently as January , after it shrugged off gains during Elliott ’s time as a major shareholder ( between April 2018 and February 2019 , the company surrendered two board seats and its poison pill ) .
Indeed , Elliott ’s prior involvement may have been part of the appeal .
Companies coming under fire from different dedicated activists at separate times are rare but hardly unheard of , with about 15 instances where the first campaign started in 2018 or later , according to Activist Insight Online .
Elliott ’s run at Commvault showed how high the stock could trade and kickstarted the refreshment of four out of 11 director spots , including a new CEO and chairman .
Operating expenses , one of Elliott ’s key targets , came down about 2 % in 2019 and were on course for a similar fall this fiscal year , after three quarters .
But that may not be enough for Starboard , which tends to target big improvements and is not averse to changing large numbers of directors .
The other six directors have between 12 and 23 years of tenure , according to Activist Insight Governance .
Given that the company ’s nomination deadline is n’t until April 13 and Starboard has kept two proxy contests in play – even justifying them with reference to the pandemic – a further board challenge is not out of the question .
The challenge will be finding a remedy , perhaps further incremental change or a sale to private equity .
With that industry apparently focused on existing positions , dealmaking has all but dried up .
Who knows if it will be back before markets start to shudder from the prospect of a recession ?

Tom Dempsey: Former New Orleans Saints record-breaking NFL kicker dies at 73 after coronavirus battle .
2020-04-05 20:17:00 +00:00 .
The NFL 's New Orleans Saints have confirmed the death of legendary former kicker Tom Dempsey at the age of 73 .
Dempsey - who had battled Alzheimer 's disease and dementia since 2013 - was diagnosed with novel coronavirus on March 25 , his daughter Ashley told nola.com .
After attending college at Palomar , Dempsey spent 11 seasons in the NFL with the Saints , Philadelphia Eagles , Los Angeles Rams , Houston Oilers and Buffalo Bills before retiring in 1979 .
He is best - known for kicking a record 63 - yard field goal for the Saints as time expired in the fourth quarter of a contest against the Detroit Lions at Tulane Stadium in 1970 .
That field - goal record - later equalled by Jason Elam , Sebastian Janikowski and David Akers - stood for 43 years before Matt Prater succeeded with a 64 - yard kick for the Denver Broncos against the Tennessee Titans in December 2013 .
Dempsey - who made the Pro Bowl as a rookie in 1969 while also receiving All - Pro honours - kicked with a custom - made shoe featuring a flattened and enlargened toe surface after being born without toes on his right foot or four fingers on this right hand .
Dempsey kicked with a custom shoe after being born without toes on his right foot ( AP )
More
He is survived by wife Carlene and three children , Ashley , Toby and Meghan .
" Our thoughts and prayers are extended to Carlene and the entire Dempsey family on the passing of their dear Tom , " Saints owner Gayle Benson said in a statement .
" The New Orleans Saints family is deeply saddened and heartbroken at this most difficult time .
" Tom 's life spoke directly to the power of the human spirit and exemplified his resolute determination to not allow setbacks to impede following his dreams and aspirations .
" He exemplified the same fight and fortitude in recent years as he battled valiantly against illnesses but never wavered and kept his trademark sense of humor .
" He holds a special place in the hearts and minds of the Saints family . "
Read more
West Brom chairman will take 100 per cent pay cut during shutdown Kyle Walker admits lockdown breach ; Man City set to punish star Virtual Grand National attracts almost 5 million viewers on ITV

Wisconsin Governor Calls Legislative Session on Primary Vote .
2020-04-05 18:24:38 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers called the state legislature into a special session on Saturday to cancel in - person voting in Tuesday ’s primary and instead switch to an all mail - in vote with an extended deadline in response to the cornavirus pandemic .
Evers ’s bid to prevent the vote ran into opposition almost immediately as Robin Vos , the speaker of the Republican - held Assembly , said in a statement the legislature would n’t take up the measure .
The body is still scheduled to meet Saturday .
In an executive order he signed Friday , Evers asked lawmakers to take up a bill to send ballots to every registered voter in the state by May 19 and extend the window for ballots to be submitted until May 26 .
Evers said in a statement on Facebook Live that the number of polling locations available has been limited because of a shortage of poll workers .
This has created a “ dangerous situation where voters , staff and volunteers will not be able to avoid large groups or practice social distancing , ” which is “ a significant concern and a very unnecessary public health risk , ” he said .
The executive order is the latest twist in weeks - long battle between the Democratic governor and the Republican - controlled legislature over the primary .
Wisconsin is a holdout as 15 states have delayed their primaries in recent weeks over fears for public health .
Evers had called on the state legislature to take several of these steps last week , asking legislators to authorize sending absentee ballots to all of Wisconsin ’s 3.3 million registered voters ahead of the April 7 primary .
When that was voted down on Monday and several parties submitted lawsuits , Evers on Wednesday asked a federal judge to direct the state to hold its primary through mail - in voting , but did not ask for a delay in the primary date .
The judge ruled Thursday to extend the deadline to submit absentee ballots by a week but did not authorize pushing the primary date back as some lawsuits had requested .
The following day , a judge ruled that the results of the primary could n’t be made public until a week after the vote , when the deadline for absentee ballots expires .
The ruling bars clerks from releasing the count until after the April 13 deadline .
Evers declared a state of emergency in the state on March 12 .
Wisconsin has more than 1,800 cases of COVID-19 .
( Adds Assembly speaker ’s comment in second paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Coronavirus: Angela Rayner 'disappointed' Matt Hancock didn't self isolate for longer .
2020-04-05 15:27:18 +00:00 .
Newly - elected deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner has criticised health secretary Matt Hancock for not self - isolating for longer after he was diagnosed with coronavirus .
Under current government advice , those who contract the disease should self - isolate at home for seven days or for as long as you still have a high temperature .
The World Health Organisation states you should “ follow the directions of your local health authority ” on self - isolation .
But Ms Rayner , who herself has been self - isolating with coronavirus symptoms , said she was “ disappointed ” Mr Hancock did n’t remain at home for longer .
Health Secretary Matt Hancock arrives at BBC Broadcasting House in London to appear on the Andrew Marr show on Sunday .
( PA )
More Speaking to Sky News ’ Sophie Ridge On Sunday , Ms Rayner said : “ I ’m disappointed that Matt Hancock , after seven days of having the virus , went out when the World Health Organisation has said you should self - isolate for 14 days .
“ I think it ’s right that we do that because I can not stress enough the severity of the symptoms that I have suffered , as you can tell from how breathless I am still now , and I ’m day nine , day 10 .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
“ I think the Government really need to give that clarity and continue to support people doing the right thing . ”
Mr Hancock announced on Friday March 27 he had tested positive for Covid-19 , and he came out of isolation on Thursday and presented the daily Downing Street press conference .
He is assumed to have self - isolated for 24 hours before he made his positive diagnosis public .
Prime Minister Boris Johnson is still in self - isolation after testing positive for coronavirus on March 27 .
He announced on Friday he was remaining in isolation as he still had a temperature although he remains a key part of the government team leading the coronavirus response .
Mr Hancock made several television appearances on Sunday in which he warned that outdoor exercise could be banned if people flout the social distancing rules .
He said sunbathing in public spaces was against the Government guidance , and told those who dared to disobey that they are putting their own and others ’ lives at risk .
Ms Rayner herself had to self - isolate after contracting coronavirus .
( Getty )
More Mr Hancock told the BBC : “ We ’ve said it ’s OK to go for exercise because both the physical and mental health benefits of getting some exercise are really important .
“ I do n’t want to have to take away exercise as a reason to leave home … if too many people are not following the rules .
“ At the moment the vast majority of people are ( following the guidance ) but people should not break the rules because that will mean that the virus spreads more and then we might have to take further action . ”
It comes as the Department of Health said the number of coronavirus - related hospital deaths stood at 4,934 patients as of 5 pm on Saturday , up by 621 from 4,313 the day before .
Coronavirus : what happened today ?
Click here to sign up to the latest news , advice and information with our daily Catch - up newsletter

Saudi Arabia delays May crude prices until after OPEC+ meeting: Saudi source .
2020-04-05 11:09:44 +00:00 .
By Rania El Gamal DUBAI
( Reuters ) -
Saudi Aramco will delay the release of its crude official selling prices ( OSP ) for May until April 10 to wait for the outcome of a meeting between OPEC and its allies regarding possible output cuts , a senior Saudi source familiar with the matter said on Sunday .
" It is an unprecedented measure that has not been taken by Aramco before .
May OSPs will depend on how the OPEC+ meeting concludes .
We are doing what we can to make it successful , including taking this extraordinary step to delay the OSPs , " the Saudi source said .
Saudi Aramco typically issues its OSPs by the 5th of each month , setting the trend for Iranian , Kuwaiti and Iraqi prices and affecting more than 12 million barrels of oil per day bound for Asia .
OPEC and allies led by Russia , a group known as OPEC+ , are due to meet on Thursday to discuss a possible new global crude supply cut to end a price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia which has prompted U.S. President Donald Trump to intervene .
The Saudi source said that Riyadh wants to avoid a repeat of the outcome of a March meeting where oil talks collapsed due to Russia 's refusal to cut output .
Coordinated cuts between OPEC+ members expired on March 31 , having helped support crude prices since they began in January 2017 .
The OPEC+ meeting was initially due to take place on Monday , but was postponed to April 9 " to allow for more time to reach out to all producers including OPEC+ and others " , the Saudi source said .
Oil prices hit an 18 - year low on March 30 due to a slump in demand caused by lockdowns to contain the coronavirus outbreak , and the failure of OPEC and other producers to extend coordinated output cuts .
The OPEC+ group is debating a global oil production pact to cut 10 million bpd or about 10 % of global oil supply , an OPEC source told Reuters on Friday .
Any agreement should include producers from outside of the OPEC+ alliance , OPEC sources said .
Asian refiners have called on Saudi Arabia , the world 's top oil exporter , to slash OSPs for a third straight month after Middle East benchmarks and refining margins fell amid ample supplies and lower demand due to the coronavirus , a Reuters survey showed .
( Reporting by Rania El Gamal ;
editing by Jason Neely and Jan Harvey )

New York in crisis as death toll nears 9/11 level .
2020-04-05 05:40:28 +00:00 .
( SOUNDBITE )
( English ) NEW YORK GOVERNOR , ANDREW CUOMO , SAYING : “ New York is in crisis . ”
New York on Friday suffered its single deadliest day from the coronavirus , recording more than 500 deaths , and bringing the statewide total to nearly 3,000 – about the same number killed in the U.S. in the September 11th , 2001 attacks .
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo pleaded for resources nationwide to be deployed to the state , where ventilators , hospital beds and other medical supplies are mere days away from running out with the worst of the onslaught yet to come .
( SOUNDBITE )
( English ) NEW YORK GOVERNOR , ANDREW CUOMO , SAYING : “ People are going to die in the near term because they walk into a hospital and there 's no bed with a ventilator , because there 's either no bed or no staff or no PPE or no ventilator .
That is what is going to happen . "
New York City alone has suffered more than a quarter of U.S. deaths in the outbreak .
Cuomo said he will sign an executive order to take ventilators from institutions that do n’t need them and either give them back at a later date or reimburse the institutions .
( SOUNDBITE )
( English ) NEW YORK GOVERNOR , ANDREW CUOMO , SAYING : “ I 'm not going to be in a position where people are dying and we have several hundred ventilators in our own state somewhere else . "
Meanwhile , healthcare workers protested outside of New York City ’s Mount Sinai hospital – desperate to get the message out about the city ’s dire needs .
( SOUNDBITE )
( English ) REGISTERED NURSE SASHA WINSLOW , SAYING : “ As of this morning , they say we got six days left until we run out of ventilators .
Six days of people that , if we do n't get what we need , will die .
And that is something that will be on their conscience , not mine .
Because I 'm here , and I 'll keep coming back here , because that is what I do . ”
But the lack of available healthcare workers – with many of them now too ill with the coronavirus to come in – has delivered another crushing blow .
( SOUNDBITE )
( English ) REGISTERED NURSE SASHA WINSLOW , SAYING : “ You have 3 nurses to 35 patients .
3 nurses , all COVID positive , with , with caring for 35 patients .
Just 3 nurses , let that sink in . ”
New York City Mayor Bill De Blasio is asking for an additional 1,000 nurses , 150 doctors and 300 respiratory therapists for the city .
The mayor told CNN he thinks there are enough ventilators to get through Sunday – after that , he ’s not sure .
New York City has yet to receive a resupply for the up to 3,000 ventilators needed by next week , de Blasio said , urging President Trump to mobilize medical personnel from the U.S. military .
Governor Cuomo was asked whether he was ‘ seizing ’ ventilators with his executive order – a term he objected to – shortly before being asked what his late father , former New York Governor Mario Cuomo , taught him about leadership in a crisis .
( SOUNDBITE )
( English ) NEW YORK GOVERNOR , ANDREW CUOMO , SAYING : “ He taught me to trust in love , and we need love now .
We need love as a people .
Am I seizing ventilators ?
No , I ’m taking excess equipment to save lives .
It ’s about doing the right thing
and it ’s about love .... ”

Disney World, Disneyland halt annual passholder payments during coronavirus closures .
2020-04-05 00:45:45 +00:00 .
Walt Disney World and Disneyland annual passholders will see their payments refunded or waived during the remainder of the parks ' closure due to the coronavirus pandemic .
The parks , which shut their gates March 15 , are closed indefinitely as the virus plays out across the U.S ..
The Walt Disney World website and app now state that people who are on monthly payment plans will see refunds for payments made March 14 through April 4 .
Disney will stop charging monthly payments for passholders effective Sunday , April 5 .
Payments will resume on customers ' regularly scheduled billing dates once the parks reopen .
Alternately , passholders on the monthly payment plan can elect to have their payments postponed beginning April 5 and resume on their billing date once the parks reopen .
Postponed payments will be collected after the currently scheduled payment term is up .
Customers who paid for a year in advance can choose a partial refund or extend how long their pass is valid .
New expiration dates will be updated on passholder accounts before the parks reopen , officials said .
The same rules apply to customers who hold annual passes to Disneyland Resort in Anaheim , California .
Coronavirus : Disney is closed , but you can still experience your favorite rides virtually
Additional information on obtaining refunds will be provided soon .
A statement on the Disney World website says , in part : " Our Annual Passholders are some of our most loyal guests , and we are available to help them during this incredibly uncertain time . "
In addition , Disney will furlough its non - union park employees starting April 19 .
“ Disney employees have received full pay and benefits during this time , and we ’ve committed to paying them through April 18 , for a total of five additional weeks of compensation , ” an April 2 statement said .
More : Disney World details major changes coming to Epcot
“ However , with no clear indication of when we can restart our businesses , we ’re forced to make the difficult decision to take the next step and furlough employees whose jobs are n’t necessary at this time . ”
Disney fans on several Facebook pages dedicated to passholders and other social media have questioned their payment status for weeks , many expressing anger over having no word until now about their status .
That 's not the case for Carolyn Perrine of Melbourne , Florida , a passholder for most of the past 18 years .
She 's just looking forward to the reopening .
She , her daughter and her daughter 's boyfriend are frequent park visitors , and are gauging their response to the park 's move so that all will , down the road , have passes that are good at the same time .
Coronavirus cancellations , delays : Tom Cruise 's ' Top Gun ' sequel , Justin Bieber 's tour postponed
She 's moved by Disney 's donation of 150,000 rain ponchos to MedShare , a humanitarian aid organization , for distribution to hospitals in need , according to the Disney Parks Blog .
Disney also recently donated 100,000 N95 masks in New York , California and Florida .
And Perrine , who goes to the parks at least once or twice a week and gets in about 25,000 steps , is still getting a sort of Disney fix during the downtime .
" I 'm using the elliptical now while watching videos from Disney , " she said , laughing .
For information on annual pass status and refunds , call 407 - 939 - 7277 .
This article originally appeared on Florida Today :
Coronavirus : Disney parks halt annual passholder billing amid closure

Iran warns of coronavirus surge after many ignore 'stay home' rules .
2020-04-04 18:33:38 +00:00 .
DUBAI ( Reuters ) -
A senior Iranian health official said the greater Tehran area may face a coronavirus resurgence after many residents flouted advisories to stay home , crowding streets and causing traffic jams across the city as the country 's New Year holidays ended on Saturday .
Iran - the Middle East country worst - hit by the epidemic -said earlier on Saturday that 158 more coronavirus patients had died in the past 24 hours , bringing the total death toll to 3,452 .
The total number of cases reached 55,743 .
" We are still concerned about the virus , for example with the level of traffic in Tehran today and queues of cars stuck on freeways , because these people can take the virus to their homes or workplaces , " Deputy Health Minister Iraj Harirchi said on state TV .
" Even a medium level of virus here can spread to nearby cities with the high level of job - related traffic between nearby cities and Tehran , " said Harirchi , who has himself been ill with COVID-19 .
" Dr Harirchi cautioned about a probable return of coronavirus in case of negligence and said social distancing measures were absolutely necessary , " said the TV .
The television showed stores that had re - opened despite a closure order on non - essential services and businesses .
Only enterprises involved in production have been allowed to re - open while following anti - coronavirus precautions .
Officials have repeatedly complained that many Iranians ignored appeals to stay at home and cancel travel plans for the New Year holidays that began on March 20 .
Iranians traditionally travel to home provinces and popular vacation spots and organise family gatherings during the New Year holidays .
Officials initially urged people to cancel such plans due to the coronavirus outbreak , and then imposed inter - city travel bans on March 25 .
Earlier the judiciary said most of some 70 inmates who escaped from a prison in western Iran last month are now back in jail .
About 100,000 prisoners have been granted temporary release due to the coronavirus epidemic .
Iranian media have reported unrest in several prisons .
CRITICISM OF U.S. SANCTIONS
In a rare comment in Britain 's Guardian newspaper , Tehran Mayor Pirouz Hanachi said U.S. sanctions were crippling Iran 's fight against the coronavirus .
" As a result ( of sanctions ) , the ability of my colleagues and I to provide the health , logistical and other essential infrastructure necessary to combat the disease has been drastically reduced .
We experience this loss every day , and it can be counted in people that would not have died , " Hanachi said .
Separately , the foreign ministry accused U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo of " medical - terrorism " through the sanctions , which have hit vital sectors such as oil and banking .
" Undisputed fact : US ' diplomats ' have long been in the business of coups , arming terrorists , " ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi said on Twitter on Saturday . "
But @SecPompeo ... and his masters have taken the ' job ' to a whole new level : # Medical_terrorism . "
Pompeo and other U.S. officials have stressed that humanitarian supplies are exempt from sanctions Washington reimposed on Tehran after President Donald Trump abandoned Iran ’s 2015 multilateral deal to limit its nuclear programme .
However , broader U.S. sanctions deter many U.S. and global firms from humanitarian trade with Iran .
Meanwhile state media quoted President Hassan Rouhani as saying that state support for businesses hit by the coronavirus outbreak would be restricted to enterprises that give assurances not to lay off workers .
( Reporting by Dubai Newsroom , ;
Editing by Angus MacSwan and Frances Kerry )

Coral Princess cruise ship with at least a dozen coronavirus cases docks in Miami .
2020-04-04 18:17:13 +00:00 .
A Princess Cruises ship docked in Miami Saturday with at least a dozen people on board who have tested positive for the novel coronavirus .
Disembarkation of the Coral Princess at Port Miami is expected to span several days and will begin with those who need medical care .
Passengers who are healthy and fit to fly are expected to begin disembarking Sunday , the line announced in a release shared Saturday by spokesperson Negin Kamali .
They will be transferred directly from the ship to Miami International Airport for flights home .
Passengers who are exhibiting any signs of respiratory illness or who are recovering from being ill will be kept on board until they 're cleared by the ship 's medical personnel .
As of Thursday , seven passengers and five crew members had tested positive for COVID-19 , the novel virus that has infected more than 1 million people worldwide and killed more than 60,000 .
There are 1,898 people on board , including 1,020 passengers and 878 crew members .
The cruise ship was expected to end its month - long South American voyage April 6 in Fort Lauderdale , Florida , where two Holland America ships , the MS Rotterdam and MS Zaandam , docked Thursday .
Between those two ships , more than 200 people had reported coronavirus - like symptoms , and 14 critically ill people were taken to Florida hospitals .
More :
Coronavirus travel restrictions around the world : A country - by - country list
Princess Cruises has been at the eye of the coronavirus storm with two of its ships , the Diamond Princess and the Grand Princess , experiencing significant , back - to - back outbreaks of COVID-19 in the span of two months .
In February , more than 700 people tested positive and 11 died after being on board the Diamond Princess , which was quarantined for two weeks off the coast of Japan .
At least 103 Grand Princess passengers were infected and two have died ;
that ship docked in Oakland , California , last month .
U.S. passengers from both ships were quarantined at military bases for two weeks after returning .
There have also been hundreds of positive cases associated with the Ruby Princess .
Authorities have been criticized for allowing 2,700 passengers and crew to disembark from the ship when it docked in Sydney on March 19 despite COVID-19 test results remaining unknown .
Authorities in Australia have confirmed 342 cases of COVID-19 in passengers who got infected while on the ship or before boarding .
But not all crew members disembarked , and an unknown number are ill .
Princess Cruises posted a message on its website March 30 as the ship floated off Australia 's coast .
" Being able to send home those crew members who are not required for the safe operation of the ship is the right thing to do both from a humanitarian point of view and Australia ’s international standing as a maritime nation that looks after foreign nationals in its care , " the post reads .
" We remain concerned that it is not safe for the ship to sail away from Australia while there are crew members on board who are ill . "
Contributing : Morgan Hines
More :
Two cruise ships finally dock in Florida after negotiations , coronavirus patients aboard
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Princess Cruises ship with COVID-19 to docks in Miami

Coronavirus will likely hit these states hardest financially, according to Moody's .
2020-04-04 17:57:54 +00:00 .
Nevada is likely to be hit the hardest financially by the coronavirus outbreak , according to research compiled by Moody ’s Analytics .
“ If you 're getting hit hard now and businesses are failing , and there 's bankruptcy and people are taking on debt or starting to default on debt , it 's going to be harder for those economies to recover , ” Moody ’s Analytics Chief Economist Mark Zandi told Yahoo Finance .
“ So the No . 1 criteria for determining who recovers more gracefully will be who gets hit least hard during this period . ”
Moody ’s looked at six metrics : exposure to the COVID-19 ( 20 % ) , demographics of the city and state ( 20 % ) , trade and travel disruptions ( 20 % ) , tourism ( 20 % ) , finance ( 10 % ) and commodities ( 10 % ) .
The data , compiled on March 30 , comes with a caveat :
The virus is constantly evolving and spreading , making it difficult to pin down concrete numbers .
( Graphic : David Foster / Yahoo Finance )
More Nevada and Hawaii were likely to face more pain because of the massive hit to their tourism industries as most states have discouraged travel and put in place orders for people to stay at home .
Read more : Stuck at home ?
Here ’s where to get free music , theater , and more during coronavirus isolation
The state of Washington , the site of the first outbreak within the U.S. , was No . 3 on Moody ’s list .
New York — which has the most confirmed cases of any state — was the No . 5 most exposed , according to Moody ’s .
On the other end of the spectrum , states like West Virginia and Missouri were the least exposed amid the COVID-19 outbreak so far , setting them up for an easier recovery in the future .
Zandi noted that data on consumer loans since the national emergency began and other information wo n’t be available for the next few weeks at least and stressed that the picture may change .
Coronavirus cases continue to rise .
( Graphic : David Foster / Yahoo Finance )
More
Unemployment claims soar
The economic shock has been felt across industries .
On March 31 , the Transportation Security Administration said that it screened only 154,080 passengers across the country — the lowest in the past decade .
On the same day in 2019 , it screened 2.3 million people .
The travel and hospitality industry hit has led to nearly 11 % of Hawaii ’s eligible pool of workers filing for unemployment claims during the week ending March 21 and another wave of claims in the week ending March 28 .
Nevada saw an initial fourteen fold increase for the week ending March 21 , which abated a little but is still at historic levels .
Initial jobless claims nationwide are at unprecedented levels : The latest data showed a staggering 6.648 million people filed for unemployment claims , up from 3.307 million claims in the previous week .
Prior to the coronavirus - induced economic shock , the previous record was 695,000 claims filed the week that ended October 2 , 1982 .
Story continues

Disney an early streaming winner as Americans are stuck indoors amid coronavirus pandemic .
2020-04-04 15:55:02 +00:00 .
At - home entertainment is seeing a dramatic surge amid the coronavirus pandemic , with streaming platforms like Disney+ ( DIS ) and Netflix ( NFLX ) benefitting .
Analytics platform EDO , Inc. surveyed 6,800 Americans from March 24 to March 28 , finding that approximately 85 % of respondents said their at - home television and movie consumption has increased since the coronavirus outbreak began .
A fifth of surveyors added that they purchased a new streaming app as a result of the quarantine .
Disney - owned properties Disney+ and Hulu , at 29 % and 21 % , respectively , received the highest number of new subscriptions ( although many respondents were already subscribers of other services ) .
In any case , it ’s clear that Netflix is facing more competition as the appetite for streaming intensifies .
According to a recent report from Nielsen , video streaming has nearly doubled in less than two years — now making up 19 % of total TV usage .
People watch Disney 's ' Bambi ' in Dortmund , Germany , on March 27 , 2020 .
( Photo : INA FASSBENDER / AFP via Getty Images )
More
And with both Disney+ and Apple TV+ at lower price points ( $ 6.99 and $ 4.99 , respectively ) , along with newcomers HBO Max ( T ) and NBC Universal ’s Peacock ( CMCSA ) entering the race this spring , the competition will become even more crowded .
Meanwhile , viewers have more options than ever , and streaming services are adapting to the current reality .
On Friday , HBO made over 500 hours of programming — including popular series “ The Sopranos , ” “ Veep , ” “ Succession , ” and “ The Wire ” — available to stream for free on its HBO Now and HBO Go services .
( Graphic : David Foster / Yahoo Finance )
More 9 % of Netflix users watched ' Tiger King ' so far Netflix still leads on a global level with the platform nabbing over 59 million downloads in the first quarter of 2020 — the most out of any other service , according to mobile intelligence company Apptopia and customer engagement platform Braze .
“ Tiger King ” has captivated Netflix viewers as the Americans remain stuck inside amid the coronavirus ( CTSY : Netflix )
More
The new show “ Tiger King ” has held the top spot on Netflix ’s Top 10 List for nearly two weeks now — capturing over 9 % of the platform ’s total viewers last month , according to 7Park Data .
Although the series still lags behind “ Ozark ” ( 13.5 % ) and “ The Office ” ( 11.5 % ) , the viewership share is impressive considering its March 20th release date .
And “ Tiger King ’s ” cumulative search engagement , EDO Inc. ’s metric for analyzing a show ’s total online engagement and overall interest , was significantly higher when compared to HBO ’s “ Chernobyl ” and Hulu ’s “ The Act ” — “ astonishing levels ” given the show ’s lack of advertising leading up to its release .
Story continues

Jane Fonda breaks the internet: Fire Drill Friday's first virtual protest crashes after thousands join online .
2020-04-04 15:08:57 +00:00 .
Jane Fonda‘s first virtual climate protest crashed after thousands of fellow activists attempted to join online .
The actress and longtime activist appeared shortly after 2 pm ( EST ) on Friday to rally supporters in the figh​t against climate change with her Fire Drill Fridays movement .
After glitches with the sound , the video cut off and organisers posted an apology on Twitter .
“ Earlier during the launch of our first virtual Fire Drill Friday we experience some technical difficulties .
We are very sorry and are grateful to the thousands of people who joined us .
We will be posting the full rally later day , ” they wrote .
Fonda , 82 , has been protesting since last year and has been arrested five times in the process .
She moved the rally online following the outbreak of the coronavirus and supporters were invited to join on Zoom and a Facebook livestream .
Earlier in the day on TikTok , she resurrected her iconic 80s exercise videos to promote the rally .
​
Following a short clip doing leg raises , she posted a follow - up clip wearing the red coat that she previously has been arrested in .
She said : “ You know what , there are too many workouts happening right now on television and on computers .
What I really would like you to do is to work out with me for the planet .
Jane Fonda speaks to supporters at first virtual rally for Friday Drill Fridays ( Facebook / Fire Drill Fridays )
More
“ There ’s a climate crisis that ’s a real emergency , and so whether you ’re on your couch or your yoga mat , will you join me for the virtual Fire Drill Fridays ?
The future needs you .
I need you . "
Since last year , Fire Drill Fridays have been holding protests on the steps of the US Capitol building every Friday morning , inspired by teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg ’s
Fridays For Future school strikes .
​
In February , Fonda moved her protest to Los Angeles before the in - person gatherings were suspended in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak .
The protests have drawn hundreds of fellow activists and has led to the arrest of Fonda , and fellow celebrities .
In January , actors Joaquin Phoenix and Martin Sheen were arrested in DC .
Others who have been led away in handcuffs from the protests include Diane Lane , Sally Field , Ted Danson and Lily Tomlin .
Sam Waterston , Kyra Sedgwick , Catherine Keener and Rosanna Arquette among other stars have also turned out in support.​ Read more
Jane Fonda workout resurrected on TikTok for climate campaign
Airline bailouts must be ‘ conditional ’ on carriers lowering emissions
What happens now coronavirus has delayed COP26 climate talks ?
Coronavirus wo n’t stop climate strikes – in fact it could help them
Barack Obama urges climate action in veiled attack on Trump

Why Americans should think twice before filing for a tax extension beyond July 15 .
2020-04-04 13:57:07 +00:00 .
The federal government has moved the tax filing deadline from April 15 to July 15 due to the novel coronavirus pandemic , and Americans can even file for an extension beyond that to Oct. 15 .
But they should do so with caution .
“ You can extend , but the payment is always due , ” Paul Miller , founder of Miller Company LLP , a New York City - based CPA firm , told Yahoo Finance ’s “ On The Move ” this week .
“ And when you extend , you extend with interest and penalties . ”
Taxpayers need to keep a close eye on tax news , Miller cautioned , noting that , “ Every day , it ’s fluid information . ”
Because of a host of difficulties the coronavirus has created for taxpayers , accountants , and government offices , the U.S. Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service last month pushed back the due date federal returns to July 15 , giving households as well as corporations an additional three months to file .
US states join the federal government in pushing back deadlines
States have slowly followed suit , with all states with a personal income tax now extending their filing deadlines beyond April 15 .
New Jersey was the last one to join on Wednesday .
KONYA , TURKEY - FEBRUARY 27 :
In this photo illustration a mobile phone screen displays Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) logo in Konya , Turkey on February 27 , 2020 .
Abdullah Coskun / Anadolu Agency
More Democratic Governor Phil Murphy made the announcement and at the same time said the state had extended its fiscal year , which was set to close June 30 now to September 30 .
That ’s because like many states , New Jersey relies on the annual April tax payments to pay its own bills .
According to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants , 39 states have now pushed back their state filing deadlines to line up with the federal July 15 date , while seven other states have moved theirs back to other dates .
It puts tax filers who were worried about meeting the usual April 15 deadline in a good spot .
“ You do n’t even have to file , ” Miller says .
“ You have an automatic extension right now . ”
The deadline changes are not just for filing taxes — they are for paying tax bills , as well .
For federal tax payments originally due on April 15 , filers now have three additional months without penalties or interest .
That ’s regardless of the amount they owe .
For states , the new deadlines vary .
And for those expecting a refund on this year ’s return , there is no need to wait until summer for the new deadline .
The IRS says most refunds will still go out within three weeks of filing .
Joanna Campione is a producer at Yahoo Finance
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , SmartNews , LinkedIn , YouTube , and reddit .

Trump Campaign Calls Out 'Delusional' Jeff Sessions Ahead of Alabama Senate Runoff .
2020-04-04 10:52:42 +00:00 .
( MONTGOMERY , Ala. ) — President Donald Trump ’s campaign has sent a letter to Jeff Sessions , his former attorney general now running for a U.S. Senate seat , objecting to Sessions ’ portrayal of himself as a Trump supporter in a campaign mailer .
The March 31 letter sent by Michael S. Glassner , chief operating officer of Donald J. Trump for President , accused Sessions of attempting to “ misleadingly promote your connections to and ‘ support ’ of Trump , ” in the campaign mailer that mentioned Trump ’s name 22 times .
“ The letter even makes the delusional assertion that you are President ‘ Trump ’s # 1 Supporter , ’ ” Glassner wrote .
“ We only assume your campaign is doing this to confuse President Trump ’s loyal supporters in Alabama into believing the President supports your candidacy in the upcoming primary run - off election .
Nothing could be further from the truth , ” Glassner wrote .
Before becoming attorney general , Sessions was the first U.S. senator to endorse Trump , donning a Make America Great
Again hat at an Alabama rally .
But in a political twist of irony , his public falling out with Trump has threatened to upend his hopes of recapturing his former seat .
Sessions relinquished the Senate seat from Alabama he held for 20 years when he was appointed Trump ’s attorney general , a position he was forced to resign after his 2017 recusal from the Russia inquiry sparked blistering criticism from Trump .
Sessions is now seeking to return to the seat .
Read more :
Jeff Sessions Just Resigned as Attorney General .
Here ’s a Timeline of His Rocky Relationship With President Trump
Wounded by the fallout of that soured relationship in the Trump - loving state , Sessions was forced into a runoff with former Auburn University football coach Tommy Tuberville in the Republican primary .
Tuberville led Sessions in the first round of voting .
The winner will face incumbent Democratic Sen. Doug Jones in November in the once reliably red state .
The letter from the Trump campaign read : “ We want to be absolutely clear about it : President Trump and the Trump Campaign unambiguously endorse Tommy Tuberville . ”
The letter was first reported by The New York Times .
According to the Sessions campaign , the mailer in question that drew the objections of the Trump campaign , was sent several days before Trump made his March 10 endorsement of Tuberville .
The Sessions camp said Thursday night that Alabama voters will decide the race .
“ The people of Alabama are going to decide this race , not Washington .
Alabamians are an independent lot and they make their own decisions .
Our campaign is resolutely focused on the important challenges facing America , and the critical issues to Alabama and our economy , ” Sessions spokesman John Rogers said in a statement .
The Sessions camp repeated a challenge to Tuberville to debate before the July runoff .
Sessions has emphasized his loyalty to Trump since entering the race .
He noted that he was the first U.S. senator to endorse Trump in 2016 and had championed many of the conservative immigration , criminal justice and trade policies that became thought of as the Trump agenda .
Trump ’s March 10 endorsement of Sessions ’ primary opponent Tuberville — and one before it that appeared to mock Sessions for being forced into a runoff — put an end to any hopes by Sessions supporters that the president would keep quiet on the Alabama race .
The GOP runoff , originally set for March 31 , was delayed until July because of the new coronavirus outbreak .

3 photos show just how health workers in Spain — which has the 2nd highest death toll in the world — are struggling under the coronavirus outbreak .
2020-04-04 04:13:39 +00:00 .
Reuters
Spain has been one of the hardest - hit countries during the coronavirus pandemic .
It has been on lockdown for several weeks but recorded the highest single - day toll by any other country on April 2 .
Doctors and nurses have been complaining about a lack of protective equipment and are struggling to find space for the rising number of infected patients , as one photo of a full hospital corridor shows .
Other photos of workers at the frontlines of the crisis also show the severe mental toll that the illness is having on those witnessing it first - hand .
Earlier this week , Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez gained approval from his parliament to extend Spain 's state of emergency to April 12 .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Three dramatic photos taken of health workers on the frontlines of the coronavirus crisis in Spain — the country with the second - highest death toll in the world — show how much it continues to struggle with the outbreak .
Spanish officials announced on Thursday , April 2 that 950 people had died of the illness that day — the largest daily increase of any country in the world .
A picture of a Madrid hospital corridor filled with infected patients who would otherwise be treated in wards shows just how overwhelmed some facilities are :
A corridor is filled with patients and medical personnel at an emergency unit of a Spanish hospital , in Getafe , outside Madrid , Spain on March 24 , 2020 .
More Reuters
Madrid is particularly hard - hit , with doctors resorting to treating thousands of patients in the IFEMA exhibition center because there is not enough space in other hospitals .
The facility released its first recovered coronavirus patient , to cheers and clapping by staff , on March 24 , the Guardian reported .
Doctors and nurses in the country have also been complaining about a lack of supply of personal protective equipment , according to Business Insider Spain .
Another picture shows two nurses hugging outside Severo Ochoa Hospital in Madrid : Medical workers hug each other outside the emergency rooms at Severo Ochoa Hospital in Leganes , Spain on March 26 , 2020 .
More Susana Vera / Reuters
Another image from the 12 de Octubre hospital shows an exhausted paramedic in his ambulance outside .
An ambulance driver takes a break near the emergency unit at 12 de Octubre hospital in Madrid , Spain on March 28 , 2020 .
More Sergio Perez / Reuters
The feeling of despair is widespread .
" Every day I go to work , I go feeling fear , stress , and pain at being witness to this situation , " Coral Merino , an ER nurse at the Príncipe de Asturias University Hospital in Alcalá de Henares , northeast of Madrid , told Business Insider Spain .
" Going to work is like going to war " said the nurse , who is responsible for administering patients with IVs and providing medication for those admitted on a daily basis .
Earlier this week , Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez gained approval from his parliament to extend the state of emergency until April 12 .
As of April 4 , the country has the second - largest number of cases in the world after the US and the second - biggest death toll after Italy .
Last week , Spanish soldiers who were disinfecting care homes across the country found a number of elderly people abandoned or dead in their beds , according to Defence Minister María Margarita Robles Fernández .
Since its nation - wide lockdown started on March 14 , Spain has seen also seen a loss of 900,000 jobs , the BBC reported , showing just how dire the economic situation is in the country .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Despite Near-Term Volatility, Nvidia Analyst Remains Bullish On Data Center Positioning, Gaming Dominance .
2020-04-04 03:56:52 +00:00 .
NVIDIA Corporation ( NASDAQ : NVDA ) quantified the impact of coronavirus on its top line at $ 100 million in its fourth - quarter earnings release in mid - February .
Since then , the viral outbreak has become a pandemic .
An analyst at Needham looked at what lies ahead for the chipmaker in an uncertain time .
The Nvidia Analyst
Analyst Rajvindra Gill maintained an Outperform rating on Nvidia shares with a $ 270 price target .
The Nvidia Thesis
Nvidia has about 6 % exposure to the automotive end market , with the chipmaker selling Xavier SoC into ADAS / AV driving applications , Gill said in a Friday note .
( See his track record here . )
In conjunction with the analyst 's view that the COVID-19 outbreak is impacting global automotive production , he lowered his fiscal year 2021 revenue estimate for Nvidia from $ 12.50 billion to $ 12.325 billion and EPS estimate from $ 7.20 to $ 7.05 .
The automotive segment is a long - term growth driver for the company , he said .
The weakness stemming from the segment can be offset by strength in data center , both in training and inference , Gill said .
The segment is likely to remain strong throughout 2020 thanks to a shift to public and private cloud as a significant number of people worldwide have been forced to work from home , he said .
" Thus , due to higher demand for cloud storage , we expect robust data center spending by hyperscalers , enterprise , and vertical customers throughout the rest of 2020 . "
Needham also expects gaming sales to rebound after the pandemic COVID-19 , especially as the number of games with ray - tracing capabilities continues to ramp .
NVDA Price Action Nvidia shares were down 5.08 % at $ 242.49 at the time of publication Friday .
Related Links : Option Traders Make Massive Multimillion Dollar Bets On Nvidia , Microsoft Nvidia Urges Gamers
To Use Their Gaming PCs To Fight Coronavirus
Latest Ratings for NVDA Date Firm Action From To Mar 2020 Susquehanna Maintains
Positive Mar 2020 Needham Upgrades Hold Buy Mar 2020
Wells Fargo Maintains
Overweight View More Analyst Ratings for NVDA View the Latest Analyst Ratings
See more from Benzinga
© 2020 Benzinga.com .
Benzinga does not provide investment advice .
All rights reserved .

Pandemic pushes U.S. gun sales to all-time high .
2020-04-04 01:17:18 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON — Firearms sales and federal background checks for purchases soared to all - time highs in March as the coronavirus pandemic brought buyers out in record numbers , even though gun dealers were included in orders shutting down businesses in some states .
The FBI conducted 3.7 million background checks last month , according to its latest figures , the highest total since the national instant check system for buyers was launched in 1998 and 1.1 million higher than the number conducted in March 2019 .
The period of March 17 - 21 was an especially busy period for the background check system .
More than 210,000 checks were conducted on March 21 alone , the record for a single day .
The March figure also topped the previous high of 3.3 million set in December 2015 , after the Obama administration raised the prospect of restricting assault weapons after the deadly mass shooting in San Bernardino , California .
Small Arms Analytics and Forecasting , a consulting firm that tracks the firearms market , said the March queries to the background check system translated to nearly 2.6 million guns sold .
The share of handgun sales was also the highest ever , with nearly twice as many sold as rifles and shotguns .
“ We have seen an absolutely enormous spurt in handgun sales , ” said Jurgen Brauer , chief economist for the firm .
“ You have state - by - state variations , but for the nation as a whole , an absolutely unprecedented boost in handgun acquisition . ”
Andrew Arulanandam , a spokesman for the National Rifle Association , said the pandemic has many Americans concerned that they can not depend on police for protection .
" People are worried with law enforcement stretched to the maximum , now responding to only selected calls , " he said .
" They realize that when bad things happen , it 's going to be up to them to be able to defend themselves and their families . "
An industry official , who asked not to be identified by name , said gun dealers report that many of the sales in March were made to first - time buyers .
A dealer in New York , who saw the surge developing before a statewide order to shut down , said she was getting many more women customers than usual .
Some cities and states sought to include firearms dealers in ordering local businesses to close during the pandemic .
But in response to lobbying by gun rights groups , the Department of Homeland Security added firearms - related employees to the essential workforce list , which is advisory only .
Some states have nevertheless chosen to close gun stores , including New York , Massachusetts , and New Mexico , though some dealers were continuing to sell online .
In Washington state , Gov. Jay Inslee left gun dealers off the list of essential businesses , but some dealers stayed open anyway .
Closure orders elsewhere prompted a string of lawsuits , which argued that shutting them down violated the Second Amendment .
Gun control groups have supported the closure orders .
" There is no constitutional right to immediately buy or sell guns .
And there certainly is not right to spread coronavirus while buying or selling guns , " said Kris Brown of the Brady Campaign .

Zoom will enable waiting rooms by default to stop Zoombombing .
2020-04-03 21:43:06 +00:00 .
Zoom is making some drastic changes to prevent rampant abuse as trolls attack publicly - shared video calls .
Starting April 5th , it will require passwords to enter calls via Meeting ID , since these may be guessed or reused .
Meanwhile , it will change virtual waiting rooms to be on by default so hosts have to manually admit attendees .
The changes could prevent " Zoombombing " , a term I coined two weeks ago to describe malicious actors entering Zoom calls and disrupting them by screensharing offensive imagery .
New Zoombombing tactics have since emerged , like spamming the chat thread with terrible GIFs , using virtual backgrounds to spread hateful messages , or just screaming profanities and slurs .
Just imagine the most frightened look on all these people 's faces .
That 's what happened when Zoombombers attacked the call .
The FBI has issued a warning about the Zoombombing problem after children 's online classes , alcoholics anonymous meetings , and private business calls were invaded by trolls .
Security researchers have revealed many ways that attackers can infiltrate a call .
The problems stem from Zoom being designed for trusted enterprise use cases rather than cocktail hours , yoga classes , roundtable discussions , and classes .
But with Zoom struggling to scale its infrastructure as its daily user count has shot up from 10 million to 200 million over the past month due to coronavirus shelter - in - place orders , it 's found itself caught off guard .
Zoom CEO Eric Yuan apologized for the security failures this week and vowed changes .
But at the time , the company merely said it would default to making screensharing host - only and keeping waiting rooms on for its K-12 education users .
Clearly it determined that was n't sufficient , so now waiting rooms are on by default for everyone .
Zoom communicated the changes to users via an email sent this afternoon that explains " we ’ve chosen to enable passwords on your meetings and turn on Waiting Rooms by default as additional security enhancements to protect your privacy . "
The shift could cause some hassle for users .
Hosts will be distracted by having to approve attendees out of the waiting room while they 're trying to lead calls .
Zoom recommends users resend invites with passwords attached for Meeting ID - based calls scheduled for after April 5th .
Scrambling to find passwords could make people late to calls .
But that 's a reasonable price to pay to keep people from being scarred by Zoombombing attacks .
The rash of trolling threatened to sour many people 's early experiences with the video chat platform just as it 's been having its breakout moment .
A single call marred by disturbing pornography can leave a stronger impression than 100 peaceful ones with friends and colleagues .
Technologists will need to grow better at anticipating worst - case scenarios as their products go mainstream and are adapted to new use cases .
Assuming everyone will have the best intentions ignores the reality of human nature .
There 's always someone looking to generate a profit , score power , or cause chaos from even the smallest opportunity .
Building development teams that include skeptics and realists , rather than just visionary idealists , could keep ensure products get safeguarded from abuse before rather than after a scandal occurs .

UHealth CEO to retire. University of Miami president to lead health system temporarily .
2020-04-03 21:33:24 +00:00 .
Edward Abraham , chief executive of the University of Miami Healthcare System , or UHealth , announced on Friday that he will retire effective May 31 after less than three years in the top job .
Abraham , a pulmonary medicine and critical care specialist , first joined UM as dean of the Miller School of Medicine in July 2017 .
He was recruited from Wake Forest University , where he had been dean of the medical school .
In January 2018 , Abraham was appointed CEO of UHealth , where he oversaw the academic medical system ’s network of hospitals and clinics in Miami - Dade , Broward , Palm Beach and Collier counties .
His appointment as CEO followed the August 2017 departure of past CEO Steven Altschuler , who stepped down 18 months into his contract to “ pursue other interests in biotechnology . ”
UHealth did not immediately respond to a request to interview Abraham .
In a prepared statement announcing the change , Abraham said the coronavirus pandemic presented an “ an opportune time ” for UM President Julio Frenk to lead the institution .
Frenk is a physician and former minister of health of Mexico .
He is a past executive at the World Health Organization , and the former dean of the T.H. Chan School of Public Health at Harvard University .
“ President Frenk , as CEO , will be providing his leadership on all fronts , ” Abraham said .
“ Being part of the University of Miami , the Miller School of Medicine , and the UHealth system has been enriching , rewarding , and personally gratifying . ”
Frenk ’s duties as UHealth CEO are expected to continue only until July 1 , according to the UHealth announcement , which said that a process to guide the search for a new CEO will be developed “ immediately . ”
Among Abraham ’s successes as CEO are the consolidation of hospital licenses across the system ’s hospitals , including Bascom Palmer Eye Institute , Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center and UHealth Tower , a 560 - bed hospital .
Abraham also navigated UHealth through financial challenges , including skyrocketing expenses and dwindling patient admissions at UHealth Tower , and then led a turnaround fueled by a growing demand for cancer care and a rise in outpatient clinic visits .
Among the most successful outpatient facilities in the system has been the Lennar Foundation Medical Center on UM ’s Coral Gables campus .

Stacey Abrams trends after Georgia governor said he didn't know about asymptomatic spread .
2020-04-03 20:40:08 +00:00 .
Stacey Abrams began trending on U.S. Twitter on Thursday after Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp admitted having only recently learned that asymptomatic individuals can spread the coronavirus — despite warnings from health experts as early as January .
Kemp , a Republican , said in a news conference Wednesday that the information led to his statewide shelter - in - place order in Georgia .
" This virus is now transmitting before people see signs , " Kemp said .
" We did n't know that until the last 24 hours . "
He added that Kathleen Toomey , the state health commissioner , told him , " This is a game changer for us . "
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , based in Atlanta , warned as early as Feb. 12 that the coronavirus could be spread by asymptomatic people .
In January , the director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases , Dr. Anthony Fauci , said there was " no doubt " that " asymptomatic transmission is occurring . "
There were 5,444 confirmed cases and 176 deaths related to the coronavirus in the state as of Thursday night , according to the Georgia Department of Public Health .
Kemp 's admission garnered public outcry on Twitter , with many saying Abrams would have responded in a timely manner to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 if she had been governor .
Abrams , a Democrat , lost the 2018 election for governor to Kemp , the secretary of state at the time , even though she accused him of mismanaging the election system through voter suppression .
Abrams was the first African American woman nominated for governor by a major party .
She later became the first African American woman to deliver a response to the president 's State of the Union address , in February 2019 .
Abrams started trending shortly after Kemp 's news conference was posted .
Abrams ' name has been floated as a potential vice presidential pick for the front - runner for the Democratic presidential nomination , Joe Biden .
In an MSNBC interview Wednesday , Abrams told Craig Melvin that she " would be happy to serve " as Biden 's running mate .

Juggling coronavirus and economy, Denmark readies to ease lockdown .
2020-04-03 17:28:27 +00:00 .
By Stine Jacobsen and Nikolaj Skydsgaard COPENHAGEN ( Reuters ) - Denmark is expected this weekend to reveal plans to relax its coronavirus lockdown , becoming the first country outside Asia to do so , reasoning that the risks of a deep recession may now be more dangerous for Danish society than a second outbreak .
The Nordic country was one of the first in Europe to shut down , and with the number of coronavirus cases stabilizing it is now facing tough decisions on reopening that many other governments around the world have lying ahead of them .
The Danish government on March 11 ordered the closure of schools , day cares , restaurants , cafes and gyms , and shut all borders to most foreigners .
On Monday , the government said it would start gradually lifting its lockdown after Easter if the numbers of cases and deaths remained stable , apparently confident it can guard its population against a second outbreak .
Frederiksen said she hoped to be able to present a plan for the first phase of a reopening by the end of this week after consultation with the other parties in government .
But many Danes question whether the government 's confidence is well - founded .
Qasim Khan , co - owner and head chef at a small Latin American restaurant in central Copenhagen , applauds the government 's quick decision to shut down the country , but worries that a reopening after Easter would be too early and could actually delay a return to normal .
" You risk that our three weeks of very tough quarantine ends being worth nothing ...
I do n't see a reason for opening up and then risk having to shut down again , " he told Reuters .
In considering whether to ease the restrictions , the government is trying to balance the need to keep its population safe and the economic risks of a deep recession .
" POLITICAL CHOICE " " The situation we are in is far more complicated than appreciating human life , " the country 's prime minister Mette Frederiksen said on Monday .
" We can not open a textbook - neither on healthcare nor economy - and find the right answer , " she said , adding : " The math is too simple . "
Denmark , which has imposed less strict limits on daily life than in Italy or France , had reported 139 coronavirus - related deaths as of Friday , with the number of patients hospitalized falling this week .
" What we 've done so far is very sensible , but I would have liked to see a development over a longer period before I dared to say that the curve is broken , " said Hans Jorn Kolmos , professor in clinical microbiology at the University of Southern Denmark .
Frederiksen acknowledged on Monday that " the strategy we follow is a political choice . "
Restaurant owner Khan , with the help of his pregnant girlfriend and two remaining staff , is still keeping his kitchen open for take - away orders .
" Is it really worth risking getting ill versus shutting down the place ?
That has been the toughest decision , " Khan said .
( Additional reporting by Andreas Mortensen ; writing by Jacob Gronholt - Pedersen , Editing by William Maclean )

Majority of Americans Now Disapprove of Trump’s Handling of the Coronavirus Outbreak .
2020-04-03 17:17:43 +00:00 .
A majority of Americans now disapprove of President Trump ’s handling of the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak , according to an ABC News / Ipsos poll .
52 percent of Americans disapprove of Trump ’s response to the pandemic , while 47 percent approve , according to the poll , which was conducted April 1 - 2 and had a 4.8 point margin of error .
The same poll taken on March 18 - 19 reported 55 percent approval of Trump ’s response versus 43 percent disapproval .
Other polls taken in mid - March showed a similar boost for Trump , after the president declared a state of emergency in the midst of a nose - diving stock market and rising coronavirus cases in the U.S. Trump has since invoked the Defense Production Act to compel General Motors and other companies to produce medical supplies needed by medical workers to fight the outbreak .
Trump had expressed hope that his administration would be able to relax social distancing guidelines by Easter ( April 12 ) , which would allow millions of Americans to return to work .
However , following Centers for Disease Control and Prevention predictions that 100,000 - 200,000 Americans could die over the next several weeks even in a “ best - case scenario ” in which people follow social distancing guidelines , the president backtracked and extended the guidelines to the end of April .
The ABC News / Ipsos poll taken on March 11 - 12 , before Trump declared a national emergency , reported that 54 percent of respondents disapproved of the president ’s response to the pandemic while 43 percent approved .
At the time , Trump drew criticism from congressional Republicans and administration officials over his public statements downplaying the threat posed by the coronavirus .
More from National Review

Anthony Joshua would be 'extremely interested' in fighting Tyson Fury next, says Eddie Hearn .
2020-04-03 15:26:09 +00:00 .
Promoter Eddie Hearn insists Anthony Joshua is " extremely interested " in fighting Tyson Fury next , stating postponements due to the coronavirus pandemic may bring the highly - anticipated bout forward .
Joshua is scheduled to defend his WBA , IBF , WBO and IBO belts against mandatory challenger Kubrat Pulev on June 20 , while Fury was expected to contest a third bout against Deontay Wilder in July .
However , with the coronavirus pandemic continuing to shut down event after event , when the scheduled bouts can take place remains a total unknown .
Hearn – speaking to Sky Sports – revealed that , as things stand , Joshua is still to face Pulev next , but believes thoughts on finances and legacies may now be more prevalent than ever , asserting it might just push an all - British undisputed showdown ever closer .
“ The one positive that could come out of this for boxing is you might find people jumping into bigger fights sooner , rather than later , because of course , their activity has been slowed , ” said Hearn .
“ Their financial gain has been slowed as well , and it probably makes them realise anything can happen - ' we need to make sure we get this fight in and I need to define my legacy ’ . ”
Hearn says a statement regarding Joshua ’s impending bout with Pulev is to come in the next week or two , with a postponement the likely outcome .
The 40 - year - old is hoping for a date in July , but remains unsure as things stand .
On the ramifications of a later date , Hearn said : “ If it starts kicking on beyond that [ July ] , then you get to a situation where if Joshua is only going to box once this year , he would very much like that to be against Tyson Fury . "
Hearn recognises that the situation is out of his hands with Fury and Wilder set to square off once more .
However , he believes there ’s still a possibility that the latter will step aside .
He said : " If it was possible and there was a way to make Kubrat Pulev wait , which I think is probably an easier job , then for sure , I think Anthony Joshua would be extremely interested in moving straight into the Tyson Fury fight .
" I think in an ideal world , we have that fight next .
" It 's always been the case , but if we can fight Kubrat Pulev in July , we 'd love to fight Tyson Fury in November , December .
“ At the same time , I think there 's so much uncertainty at the moment , this is the kind of situation that might make people say - ' I think now is the time ' . "
Read more
Billy Joe Saunders suspended after video showing men how to hit women
Boxing schedule : Full list of date changes and postponements
Joshua Buatsi confident he and Anthony Yarde will collide
Hearn vows to reward NHS staff with free tickets to major fight nights

Austria Opens the Door to Easing Lockdown After Containing Virus .
2020-04-03 14:33:45 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Austria may be one of the first European countries to loosen restrictions aimed at slowing the spread of the coronavirus .
Over the weekend , the government will review data and consider a plan to gradually restart the economy after it succeeded in slowing the outbreak of the deadly disease , Chancellor Sebastian Kurz told parliament in Vienna on Friday .
At the same time , Kurz urged Austrians to persevere with social - distancing measures and asked them to refrain from celebrating the Easter holiday with large gatherings of families and friends .
The 33 - year - old leader , who wore a face mask before and after his speech , also warned against giving the all clear before virus statistics show a sustainable downward trajectory .
Kurz has previously raised the prospects of easing restrictions after Easter on April 12 and then dashed those hopes by tightening aspects of the lockdown .
“ Let ’s not jump to conclusions because there are some positive signals , ” Kurz told lawmakers .
“ I can promise you , if the numbers support it , we ’ll do what we can to return to normality step by step . ”
Bordering on a northern Italian virus hotspot and a spreader of its own through some of its ski resorts , Austria was one of the first European countries after Italy to close schools and stores , taking the step on March 16 .
Kurz ’s government added measures like mandatory face masks in recent days .
The restrictions aimed at limiting contact between people managed to reduce the increase in new infections to less than 5 % per day .
The number of daily fatalities has fallen for four straight days this week , with 10 deaths on Friday taking the total to 168 .
Kurz ’s government , a coalition with the environmentalist Greens , will review virus statistics with epidemiology experts on Sunday and present its plans on Monday , Kurz said .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

COVID-19: Around 60,000 applications received for Temporary Relief Fund – Desmond Lee .
2020-04-03 10:22:45 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE — Around 60,000 people in Singapore have applied for the Temporary Relief Fund ( TRF ) , which provides urgent financial assistance for those affected by the COVID-19 pandemic , since it was launched on Wednesday ( 1 April ) .
“ My colleagues at the SSOs ( social service organisations ) and CCs ( community centres ) under the People ’s Association are working hard to get affected Singaporeans the support they need , ” said Minister for Social and Family Development Desmond Lee during a COVID-19 multi - ministry taskforce press conference on Friday .
The TRF provides low- and middle - income Singaporeans and permanent residents with a one - off cash sum of $ 500 to assist those who are facing financial difficulties due to the pandemic .
It was announced in Parliament by Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat on 27 March as part of the Resilience Budget meant to help those affected by the COVID-19 crisis .
Lee noted that TRF applications are open until 30 April and that there is “ no need to rush ” .
During the same press conference , the taskforce announced a number of “ circuit breaker ” measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in Singapore , including the month - long closure of most physical workplaces not involved in essential services from 7 April until 4 May. Lee noted , however , that SSOs and CCs would remain open during this period so Singaporeans in need can continue to receive social and financial assistance , with the “ appropriate safe - distancing measures put in place ” .
“ These include the TRF , the COVID-19 Support Grant as well as other ComCare assistance schemes , ” he added .
Some measures to be taken to ensure social distancing is practised during TRF applications include the launch of an online application form in the second week of April .
Those who still feel the need to apply for the TRF in person can visit SSOs and CCs to obtain the forms , which can be filled out at home and later dropped off in a designated box .
On - site assistance would also be available for those looking to apply , said Lee .
Stay in the know on - the - go : Join Yahoo Singapore 's Telegram channel at http://t.me/YahooSingapore Related stories : COVID-19 : No mid - year examinations in light of school closures - Ong Ye Kung COVID-19 : Hospital memo on Singapore PM Lee Hsien Loong testing positive is fake COVID-19 : Singapore Red Cross to distribute care packages to seniors living alone Singapore agencies launch online COVID-19
Symptom Checker

NC sent $8.2 million in unemployment benefits this week. It’s just the beginning. .
2020-04-03 09:59:58 +00:00 .
North Carolina ’s unemployment office has received more than 353,000 claims for unemployment benefits over the past two weeks , state officials said Thursday .
Of those claims , 87 percent of them are related to COVID-19 , the illness caused by the coronavirus , said Lockhart Taylor , Assistant Secretary of the Division of Employment Security .
As the rise in coronavirus cases continues to shut down businesses and events , with many now required to work from home , more people are finding themselves without work .
Gov. Roy Cooper issued a stay - at - home order for the entire state that went into effect Monday .
Among other things , it requires non - essential businesses to close .
That is expected to last until April 29 .
The state began to see a jump in unemployment claims on March 16 , when 3,184 people filed .
In the days prior , claims averaged around 500 a day .
Four days later , on March 20 , 34,706 people filed in one day .
Taylor said upgrades have been made to its system for those who have had trouble getting through , and the state plans to add 350 people to respond to claims and file claims .
“ We know our job is just beginning , and we will not rest until we ’ve processed every claim , answered every question , and answered every phone call , ” Taylor said .
In a press briefing Thursday , Taylor said the state paid out $ 8.2 million this week to people who have filed claims identifying COVID-19 as the reason they lost their job .
“ That number is going to increase exponentially in the coming days , ” Taylor said .
North Carolina ’s first positive coronavirus case was discovered on March 2 .
Since then , there have been more than 1,857 positive cases around the state .
All but one county in North Carolina have declared state of emergencies .
Listen to our daily briefing :
Here 's how to listen to our Daily Briefing on your favorite smart speakers and podcast playlists .
Taylor said it takes two weeks after filing for unemployment for a person to receive their benefits .
The state ’s average unemployment payout is $ 2,300 , or $ 264 a week for around two months , The News Observer has reported .
People who get state benefits will also get federal benefits .
The federal benefits extend some qualifications for people who may not traditionally qualify for unemployment benefits .
However , the state is still awaiting final guidance from the U.S. Department of Labor .

China’s fund industry bucks global routs as assets reach new high on haven demand .
2020-04-03 09:37:37 +00:00 .
China ’s mutual - fund industry has expanded this year amid the global market routs , with assets reaching a new high in February amid demand for safer assets at home .
Assets rose 11 per cent this year to 16.4 trillion yuan ( US$ 2.3 trillion ) at the end February , according to statistics published by the Asset Management Association of China , even as many other markets slumped into bear - market territory amid the worsening coronavirus pandemic .
Money - market funds , which typically invest in safer assets such as short - term government bonds and commercial bills , contributed 60 per cent of the expansion this year , with its size rising 14 per cent to 8.1 trillion yuan , the data showed .
Bond funds increased 7.2 per cent to 2.96 trillion yuan from the end of 2019 , the association said .
Asset managers from JPMorgan Asset Management to BNY Mellon Investment Management said risk appetite will remain low in the foreseeable future as the pandemic is likely to send the global economy into a recession this year .
“ As uncertainties arise from the global economic fallout of Covid-19 , global growth may worsen before improving and market volatility and risk aversion will persist , ” said Tai Hui , chief market strategist for Asia at JPMorgan Asset in Hong Kong .
“ Investors are likely to stay defensive until the outbreak is contained , or until there is credible policy to support the global economy . ”
The size of stock funds rose 7.7 per cent to 1.4 trillion yuan in the same period just before global stock markets faced a torrent of selling in March .
While many global stock indexes fell into a bear - market territory in March , losses in Chinese equities were narrow .
Reports suggesting China has succeeded in containing the outbreak at home may have buoyed investors .
The Shanghai Composite Index fell 4.5 per cent in March as regional markets lost at least 20 per cent .
“ At best , with rolling quarantines across the developed economies , it is expected economic repercussions to persist for the first half of the year and spill into the third quarter , ” said Shamik Dhar , chief economist at BNY Mellon .
China had 128 fund - management companies at the end of February , with 44 being ventures with foreign ownership , according to the data from the industry association .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article China ’s fund industry bucks global routs as assets reach new high on haven demand first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Infinera Benefits From Increasing Optical Demand, Piper Sandler Says In Upgrade .
2020-04-03 05:56:44 +00:00 .
The demand environment for optical equipment suppliers is improving , and Infinera Corp. ( NASDAQ : INFN ) has an impressive product pipeline , according to Piper Sandler .
The Infinera Analyst
Troy Jensen upgraded Infinera from Neutral to Overweight and with a $ 8.50 price target .
The Infinera Thesis
Work - at - home initiatives during the coronavirus pandemic are putting excessive stress on carrier and data center networks , resulting in rising demand for optical equipment suppliers , Jensen said in the Thursday upgrade note .
( See his track record here . )
Supply constraints are now being alleviated , as China is reaching near full production capacity , the analyst said .
Although production concerns are emerging from countries like Malaysia and Thailand , these are “ less of a concern versus China , ” he said .
The 600 G Groove platform , which was launched last year , has been gaining momentum and is likely to ramp through 2020 , Jensen said .
Infinera has a healthy pipeline of new technologies that “ should help sustain their momentum ” in the second half of 2020 and through 2021 , the analyst said .
These tailwinds , coupled with the recent selloff in the company ’s shares , create “ a compelling risk / reward scenario , he said .
INFN Price Action Infinera shares were trading 5.87 % higher at $ 5.05 at the time of publication Thursday .
Related Links : Benzinga 's Top Upgrades , Downgrades For April 2 , 2020 92 Biggest Movers From Yesterday
Latest Ratings for INFN
Date Firm Action From To
Apr 2020 Piper Sandler Upgrades Neutral Overweight Mar 2020 Nomura Maintains
Neutral Mar 2020 Citigroup Downgrades Neutral Sell View More Analyst Ratings for INFN View the Latest Analyst Ratings
See more from Benzinga
© 2020 Benzinga.com .
Benzinga does not provide investment advice .
All rights reserved .

Congressman virus fear delays prison stint .
2020-04-03 05:05:16 +00:00 .
A former US congressman sentenced to prison for an illegal stock tip about an Australian biotech company has successfully argued the coronavirus pandemic made life behind bars too dangerous for him .
Chris Collins , 69 , was scheduled to begin his 26 - month sentence on April 21 at a prison camp attached to South Carolina 's Estill medium - security correctional facility .
US District Court Judge Vernon Broderick on Wednesday agreed to delay Collins ' start date until June 23 .
" Mr Collins is older than 65 and has additional risk factors , which place him at a high risk of contracting and suffering severe illness from COVID-19 if exposed to the virus , " Collins ' lawyers wrote in the letter to the judge .
" It would be particularly dangerous for an elderly person with underlying health conditions like Mr Collins to report for incarceration right now in the middle of the COVID-19 pandemic that is ravaging the United States . "
Collins , a wealthy New York businessman elected to the House of Representatives in 2012 , was one of the first members of Congress to back Donald Trump 's presidential campaign .
He was also a strong supporter of Innate Immunotherapeutics , a small Australian Stock Exchange listed biotech firm with offices in Sydney and Auckland developing a drug that , if successful , would cure multiple sclerosis .
Collins bought almost one - fifth of Innate 's stock , sat on its board of directors and his son Cameron and daughter Caitlin were among the company 's top 20 shareholders .
On June 22 , 2017 , Collins was at a congressional picnic on the White House lawns when he received a confidential email from Innate announcing clinical trials for the multiple sclerosis drug failed .
Collins alerted Cameron who sold approximately 1.391 million shares of Innate stock and avoided approximately $ US570,900 in losses .
Innate 's stock price dropped 92 per cent on the first trading day following the public announcement of the drug trial failure .
Cameron Collins tipped off three others , including his fiancee 's father Stephen Zarsky , and they avoided approximately $ US186,620 in losses .
After initially vowing to fight the charges , Collins entered guilty pleas to conspiracy to commit securities fraud and false statement charges and was sentenced on January 17 .
Cameron Collins and Zarsky were sentenced to home confinement .
Collins ' lawyers cited a New York Times story describing how the " coronavirus is spreading quickly in America 's jails and prisons , where social distancing is impossible and sanitiser is widely banned , prompting authorities across the country to release thousands of inmates in recent weeks to try to slow the infection , save lives and preserve medical resources " .

Parliament to debate Bill on plans for possible election amid COVID-19 pandemic .
2020-04-03 04:50:12 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE — A Bill on contingency plans to be put in place should a general election be held amid the COVID-19 outbreak will be debated in Parliament next Tuesday ( 7 April ) .
In response to media queries , the Elections Department ( ELD ) said on Friday that , in view of the rapidly evolving COVID-19 situation , it must make contingency plans for precautionary measures to ensure a safe election , should the upcoming general election take place amid the pandemic .
“ The Parliamentary Elections ( COVID-19 Special Arrangements ) Bill contains the necessary legislative provisions to allow ELD to implement temporary arrangements to ensure the safety of voters , candidates and election officials during Parliamentary elections held on or before 14 April 2021 , ” said ELD .
“ The health and safety of voters , candidates and election officials is paramount to us , ” it added .
In recent weeks , Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has given strong hints that a general election will be held shortly .
The ruling People ’s Action Party ’s term ends on 15 January 2021 , after which an election must be held by 14 April 2021 .
As of Wednesday , Singapore has confirmed 1,000 cases of COVID-19 infection , with 245 patients fully recovered and discharged .
On Friday morning , a fifth patient - an 86 - year - old female Singaporean - died of the disease .
Related stories :
Could Singapore 's Lee Hsien Loong stay on as PM because of COVID-19 ?
Is China to blame for the COVID-19 pandemic ?
No , says PM Lee

Coronavirus death toll rises to 12 in NSW .
2020-04-03 04:29:18 +00:00 .
Two more people have died from coronavirus in NSW , including an elderly man who had been a cruise ship passenger , taking the state 's COVID-19 death toll to 12 .
The deaths - the second and third outside of Sydney - take the national coronavirus toll to 27 .
The 75 - year - old man who died in Wollongong Hospital had been a passenger on the Ovation of the Seas cruise ship , NSW Health said in a statement on Friday .
A 74 - year - old woman who died in Albury Base Hospital overnight had acquired COVID-19 overseas .
The number of confirmed COVID-19 infections in NSW has reached 2389 with 91 new cases in the past 24 hours .
There are 42 people being treated in intensive care units in NSW with 22 of them requiring ventilators .
Meanwhile , NSW Police Commissioner Mick Fuller will lead an investigation into the Ruby Princess cruise ship fiasco , in which infected passengers were allowed off the ship before test results were known .
Mr Fuller says police are waiting to hear how many of the 1100 crew on - board need to be evacuated into NSW hospitals after staff from Aspen Medical and NSW Health boarded the cruise ship on Thursday afternoon to test and treat sick crew members .
" If there is a couple of hundred people infected and they ca n't handle anymore then we will have to deal with that , " he told reporters on Friday .
Authorities are concerned infected crew could overwhelm NSW hospitals if even a small proportion contract the virus .
Cruise ships have become a major source of infection in NSW with more than 470 cases linked to several vessels , including 351 cases from the Ruby Princess and 84 from the Ovation of the Seas .
Mr Fuller has urged cruise ships floating off the NSW coast to go home rather than risk flooding the state with new infections .
Two Carnival ships are currently on their way out of NSW and five Royal Caribbean ships will refuel in Sydney before leaving on Sunday .
The Ruby Princess will remain off Sydney for the time being while crew members are assessed by doctors .
Federal Labor leader Anthony Albanese on Friday stressed the Commonwealth controlled Australia 's borders when criticising the Morrison government 's " diabolical " handling of the Ruby Princess .
" They 're responsible for these issues and yet the federal government has refused to take responsibility for it , " he told reporters in Sydney .
Mr Albanese urged the NSW and federal governments to stop pointing the finger and concentrate on avoiding a " repeat of this debacle " .
NSW Labor leader Jodi McKay said the Berejiklian government was to blame as she called for an independent inquiry with royal commission powers .
" That boat sailed into a NSW port and it was NSW Health that was responsible for screening and testing - that did n't happen , " she told reporters .
Ms McKay added that as a result of the government 's " catastrophic failure , " COVID-19 had spread into rural and regional NSW .
Other confirmed coronavirus cases in NSW include two radiation therapists from Westmead Hospital , a student from St Michael 's Primary School in Belfield and a child who attended Woodport Early Learning Centre in Erina on the Central Coast .
A nurse at Anglican Care 's Storm Retirement Village in Taree on the mid - north coast has also tested positive for the virus .
NSW Health said there have been a small number of COVID-19 cases with an unknown source in Taree , with the local health district promoting testing of residents in the area .

Trump rips Schumer for asking him to appoint a 'military man' on coronavirus supplies .
2020-04-03 04:20:18 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump on Thursday ripped Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer as " missing in action " during the coronavirus crisis after the New York Democrat called on him to appoint a " czar " with a military background to oversee the dissemination of critically needed supplies to fight the coronavirus outbreak .
" I 've known you for many years , but I never knew how bad a Senator you are for the state of New York until I became president , " Trump told Schumer in a letter that was released minutes before Navy Rear Adm. John Polowczyk , who has been heading up the Federal Emergency Management Agency 's supply chain task force , spoke at the White House coronavirus briefing .
" He is working 24 hours a day , and is highly respected by everyone , " Trump said of Polowczyk in the letter .
" If you spent less time on your ridiculous impeachment hoax , which went haplessly on forever and ended up going nowhere ( except increasing my poll numbers ) , and instead focused on helping the people of New York , then New York would not have been so completely unprepared for the ' invisible enemy . '
No wonder AOC and others are thinking about running against you in the primary , " Trump wrote , referring to Rep. Alexandria Ocasio - Cortez , D - N.Y.
" If they did , they would likely win . "
Schumer , in an interview Thursday morning on MSNBC 's " Morning Joe , " said Trump needed “ to put in charge a czar of the whole production and distribution of these materials under the DPA , ” referring to the Defense Production Act .
Schumer said that person should be a “ military man ” because the military knows how to collect and distribute materials quickly .
He sent a letter to Trump Thursday to formally ask him to take that step .
“ While companies that volunteer to produce ventilators and PPE are to be commended and are appreciated , America can not rely on a patchwork of uncoordinated voluntary efforts to combat the awful magnitude of this pandemic , " Schumer wrote .
" It is long past the time for your administration to designate a senior military officer to fix this urgent problem . ”
The Democratic leader said in the interview that he had spoken to Peter Navarro , an assistant to the president for trade and manufacturing policy who has been put in charge of overseeing the production and distribution of supplies , and came away " disappointed . "
“ I was very disappointed .
He 's a good man .
He 's a professor , he knows a lot about China — he knows nothing about this , ” Schumer said .
Moments after Schumer 's TV appearance , Trump said in a tweet that his administration already has a military man in charge of distributing goods , “ a very talented Admiral , in fact . ”
In a follow - up tweet , Trump said that it does n’t matter how much Schumer asks for because it would “ never be good enough . ”
He said the minority leader should “ stop complaining find out where all of these supplies are going . "
Trump announced last Friday at the White House coronavirus task force news briefing that he was tapping Navarro to be the policy coordinator for the use of the Defense Production Act .
Navarro did not serve in the military .
Schumer had urged the administration to declare the virus a public health emergency on January 26 , and a month later said the White House 's $ 2.5 billion request for money to combat the virus was too low .
Congress later passed an $ 8 billion package , which was in line with what Schumer recommended .

‘Inexcusable’: Dr. Sanjay Gupta Goes Off on Georgia Governor’s ‘Stunning’ Coronavirus Admission .
2020-04-03 03:40:07 +00:00 .
Dr. Sanjay Gupta was visibly furious on Thursday afternoon as he watched footage of Georgia ’s Republican Gov. Brian Kemp defend his delayed response to the coronavirus pandemic by claiming that he had just found out it can be transmitted asymptomatically .
“ Those individuals could have been infecting people before they ever felt bad , but we did n’t know that until the last 24 hours , ” Kemp said on Wednesday when he finally announced a state - wide shelter - in - place order .
He referred to the revelation as a “ game - changer . ”
“ I ’m really kind of stunned by what he said , because we ’ve known that for quite some time , have n’t we ? ”
anchor Anderson Cooper said to his CNN colleague .
“ Anderson , this is inexcusable , ” Gupta said , adding , “ My kids who go to school in Georgia knew that a month ago . ”
He noted that the CDC , which is based in Kemp ’s state , warned about asymptomatic transmission as early as Feb. 4 .
“ We ’ve known this for a long time , ” he said .
“ To say that we ’ve just found out in the last 24 hours and that ’s why we ’re doing this , this is just not right . ”
Seth Meyers Exposes Fox News ’ Sean Hannity Over Huge Coronavirus ‘ Hoax ’ Lie Gupta went on to say that he finds it “ very hard to believe ” that Kemp , who narrowly defeated Stacey Abrams in 2018 while serving as Georgia ’s secretary of state , was being honest in his comments while Cooper said that the governor is guilty of “ political malpractice ” if not outright “ criminal ” negligence .
“ If it ’s true that he just heard that , he just learned that , ” Cooper said later , “ then he has not been paying attention and he has not been doing his job .
That is completely irresponsible . ”
“ He ’s not been paying attention to the most important issue that he ’ll probably ever run into in his lifetime and certainly as governor , ” Gupta added .
“ And he says , ‘ I just found out about this ? ’ ”
All he could do was shake his head in disgust .
Dr. Sanjay Gupta Tells Colbert Trump ‘ Failed ’ Americans With Coronavirus Response
Read more at The Daily Beast .
Got a tip ?
Send it to The Daily Beast here
Get our top stories in your inbox every day .
Sign up now !
Daily Beast Membership :
Beast Inside goes deeper on the stories that matter to you .
Learn more .

The IRS will reportedly begin issuing $1,200 stimulus payments on April 9, but some Americans could wait up to five months to receive their check .
2020-04-03 03:12:40 +00:00 .
Associated Press
The IRS will begin sending out coronavirus stimulus checks as soon as April 9 , according to an internal distribution plan obtained by The Washington Post .
Electronic payments will be sent out next Friday , the internal document said , but paper checks will be mailed out to Americans on a weekly rotation .
The plan set priority for paper check distribution to those with the lowest - income — individual taxpayers making $ 10,000 or less on April 24 .
Checks for those under the $ 20,000 or less bracket will be mailed a week later on May 1 , followed by Americans earning $ 30,000 or less on May 8 , and so on .
About 145 million Americans can expect a stimulus check to support those who have been impacted by the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic , with about 6.6 million people filing for unemployment .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
The IRS will send out $ 1,200 coronavirus stimulus checks beginning April 9 , The Washington Post reported , citing an agency plan .
However , some Americans could wait as long as five months to receive their check , according to an internal document obtained by The Post .
According to the payment schedule , electronic payments will go out next Thursday , with deposits being made by April 14 at the latest , The Post reported .
" If we know where to put the money , we 're going to press the button and put it there next week , " an anonymous IRS official told the publication .
The plan set priority for paper check distribution to those with the lowest - income — individual taxpayers making $ 10,000 or less on April 24 .
Paper checks will be mailed out to Americans by $ 10,000 increments per week starting on that date , according to the internal document .
For example , checks for those under the $ 20,000 or less bracket will be mailed a week later on May 1 , followed by Americans earning $ 30,000 or less on May 8 , and so on .
Checks to joint taxpayers making $ 198,000 — the maximum eligible income for the stimulus package — will be distributed on September 4 .
About 145 million Americans can expect a stimulus check to support those who have been impacted by the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic , with about 6.6 million people filing for unemployment .
Most Americans should receive their money by April 17 , Treasury Sec .
Steven Mnuchin said .
But the IRS still has yet to publicly announce how it plans to distribute the stimulus package money to Americans .
Under the Coronavirus Aid , Relief , and Economic Security ( CARES ) Act , adult taxpayers earning $ 75,000 or less will receive a $ 1,200 , including an additional $ 500 per dependent .
Americans making more than $ 99,000 will not receive aid , The Post reported .
Representatives from the Treasury Department and the IRS did not immediately respond to Business Insider 's requests for comment .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Tucker Carlson: Sen. Kelly Loeffler Should Resign if She Knew About Stock Trades .
2020-04-03 02:32:41 +00:00 .
Two weeks after calling on Senate Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr ( R - NC ) to resign if he could n’t explain his suspicious stock dumps , Fox News host Tucker Carlson said Sen. Kelly Loeffler ( R - GA ) must leave office if it is revealed she knew in advance about stock trades her financial advisers made .
Last month , after news broke that Burr dumped up to $ 1.7 million in stocks — including shares in the hotel and resort industry — after Senate briefings on the new coronavirus , The Daily Beast reported that Loeffler made up to $ 3 million stock transactions after attending a senators - only meeting on the disease .
All but two of the 29 transactions Loeffler and her husband made between late - January and mid - February — before the stock market began tanking — were sales .
One of Loeffler ’s two purchases was in a tech company that offers teleworking software , which saw a bump in price as more and more workers shifted to working from home .
At the end of his Thursday night program , Carlson noted that he had Loeffler on right to defend herself after the Beast ’s story came out , adding that she denied any wrongdoing and insisted that all the trades were made by her advisers without her prior knowledge .
“ Now new congressional disclosures show that she sold far more stock than we initially knew , ” the Fox host said .
“ Between February 26 and March 11 , Loeffler and her husband dumped almost $ 19 million of stock in Intercontinental Exchange , the company her husband runs . ”
Pointing out that during that same period the couple sold roughly $ 1 million in shares of several retailers , Carlson added that they then went and bought stock in DuPont , a company that makes antiviral protective gear .
“ So did she know any of this was happening ? ”
Carlson asked .
“ We do n’t know the answer to that .
We do know that on March 10 , after almost all these trades were done , she went on Twitter to assure constituents that everything was fine . ”
“ So again , we do n’t know the truth , ” the Fox News host continued .
“ But if she knew about these trades and still issued that little PSA we showed you , she should leave office .
She claims she only learned about the trades after they happen .
She denies insider trading , and good .
Then she should welcome a federal investigation into all of this . ”
Read more at The Daily Beast .
Get our top stories in your inbox every day .
Sign up now !
Daily Beast Membership :
Beast Inside goes deeper on the stories that matter to you .
Learn more .

Here's 'the problem' with the IRS coronavirus tax filing extension, one expert says .
2020-04-03 02:10:47 +00:00 .
As the coronavirus escalates across the United States , businesses and individuals are concerned with how this will affect their taxes , despite the deadline being extended to July 15 .
That changed deadline is not a blanket extension for all taxes , tax litigation consultant and author of “ Small Business Tax Guide ” Daniel Pilla told Yahoo Finance ’s
On the Move on Thursday .
It only applies to income taxes and not employment taxes businesses have to pay , he pointed out .
“ The problem with this ... is the extension that the IRS granted last week , from April 15 to July 15 , applies to income taxes only .
Alright ?
This is very important for people to understand , that we ’re only talking about an income tax filing and an income tax extension .
It does not apply to employment taxes , ” he said .
That means that small businesses still have to file their 941 forms , which employers use to report taxes withheld from workers ’ paychecks and to pay their portion of Social Security or Medicare .
Employers still have to file employment tax returns on time and make employment tax deposits on time , according to Pilla .
Of course , he added , this raises the question of what happens when employers ca n’t make those filings on time .
Asked if the IRS was likely to go after small businesses for not paying taxes , Pilla said , “ I just received a news bulletin from the Internal Revenue Service from yesterday afternoon , it ’s not even on their website yet , that says they ’re going to back off on enforcement between now and July 15 . ”
Moreover , Pilla said , if individuals and businesses ca n’t file their income taxes by July 15 , they also have the option to file for yet another six - month extension .
“ That ’s automatic .
You do n’t need a reason for that , ” he said .
Still , the IRS encouraged all taxpayers who believe they ’re owed a refund to file as soon as possible — even though the deadline has been extended .
McKenzie DeGroot is a producer at Yahoo Finance .
Follow her on Twitter : @degrootmckenzie
Read more :
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , SmartNews , LinkedIn , YouTube , and reddit

Bed Bath sues 1-800-Flowers for trying to renege on deal over COVID-19 .
2020-04-02 23:56:42 +00:00 .
By Tom Hals
WILMINGTON , Del ( Reuters ) - Bed Bath
Beyond Inc BBBY.O has asked a judge to hold 1 - 800 - Flowers .
Com Inc FLWS.O to a $ 252 million deal between the companies in what appears to one of the first examples of a corporate sale coming unraveled due to the coronavirus pandemic .
The internet retailer of flowers and gift baskets agreed in February to buy the Pmall.com business from home furnishings retailer Bed Bath Beyond , with a closing date of March 30 .
Bed Bath said in its complaint , filed in Delaware 's Court of Chancery , that 1 - 800 - Flowers told it on March 24 the COVID-19 outbreak , the disease caused by the coronavirus , denied the company the resources to close the deal and integrate the business .
1 - 800 -
Flowers said it was delaying closing to April 30 , according to the filing .
" Even a calamitous event such as COVID-19 does not permit a party to avoid its obligations , " the lawsuit said .
1 - 800 -
Flowers said it still wanted to proceed with the deal , but the pandemic kept it from satisfying conditions of the deal , due to which it has requested a delay in the transaction 's closing .
" While we still desire to proceed with the transaction , we maintain that the conditions to closing the transaction have not been satisfied in light of the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic , including the shut - down of the PersonalizationMall.com facilities until at least April 30 , 2020 " , the company said , adding it aims to defend itself against the lawsuit .
Shares in Bed Bath were down about 6.8 % in late trading at $ 3.53 , while 1 - 800 - Flowers stock was down about 3.5 % at $ 12.20 .
Both trade on the Nasdaq , which was up about 0.6 % .
The sale agreement contains a " material adverse effect " clause , or MAE , that permits 1 - 800 - Flowers to terminate if there is an event that has a disproportionate impact on Pmall.com , as opposed to a broad - based impact across the economy .
Bed Bath 's court papers said 1 - 800 - Flowers did not invoke the MAE .
Wall Street 's dealmakers are closely watching the impact of the pandemic and unprecedented economic shutdown .
Deal activity in the United States fell by half from a year ago in the first three months of 2020 , to $ 252 billion .
Many pending deals were negotiated months before the pandemic intensified , raising doubts if buyers will make good on their agreements .
U.S. auto parts company BorgWarner Inc BWA.N threatened to walk away from a $ 951 million deal to buy Delphi Technologies DLPH.N on Tuesday after the automotive equipment supplier drew down on a credit line without its acquirer ’s approval .
Despite the unprecedented impact of " stay home " orders that have shut businesses globally and contributed to a plunge in oil prices , corporate lawyers have questioned if buyers can get out of mergers .
Delaware judges have a history of holding buyers to deals , although in 2018 Germany 's Fresenius SE FREG.DE was allowed to end its $ 4.75 billion takeover of Akorn Inc AKRX.O , after the generic drugmaker suffered a dramatic decline in business .
( Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington , Delaware ; additional reporting Anurag Maan in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Leslie Adler and Shinjini Ganguli )

Trump Responds to Schumer’s Coronavirus Criticism: ‘I Never Knew How Bad a Senator You Are’ .
2020-04-02 23:35:51 +00:00 .
President Trump sent a scathing letter to Senator Chuck Schumer ( D. , N.Y. ) after the Senate minority leader criticized the president ’s coronavirus response and demanded that he establish someone “ unpolitical ” to oversee the flow of medical equipment to embattled providers .
“ No wonder AOC and others are thinking about running against you in the primary .
If they did , they would likely win , ” Trump wrote .
“ . . .
I ’ve known you for many years , but I never knew how bad a senator you are for the state of New York , until I became president . ”
The criticism comes after Schumer claimed Trump was politicizing the government ’s coronavirus response , after reports that hospitals and other medical providers are facing shortages of crucial medical equipment .
“ It is the cruelest irony that this nation is now dependent on China for many of these products , ” Governor Andrew Cuomo said at his daily press briefing on Thursday .
“ I am calling on the administration to put in charge of both production and distribution of materials a military man as czar under the [ Defense Production Act ] , ” Schumer said Thursday on MSNBC ’s Morning Joe .
“ We need someone unpolitical to produce the materials more quickly and to distribute them to the places that are most needed — to not have my governor have to call up California and compete with other states . ”
Trump initially responded on Twitter , saying “ we do have a military man in charge of distributing goods , ” in reference to Rear Admiral John P. Polowczyk , who is overseeing the supply chain task force at FEMA .
He added in later tweets that “ Massive amounts of medical supplies , even hospitals and medical centers , are being delivered directly to states and hospitals by the Federal Government . ”
Schumer then sent a letter to Trump to further press the issue , accusing the Trump administration of “ tardiness and inadequacy ” in its response .
“ The existing federal leadership void has left America with an ugly spectacle in which States and cities are literally fending for themselves , ” Schumer wrote .
“ . . .
The only way we will fix our PPE and ventilator shortage is with a data - driven , organized and robust plan from the federal government . ”
The president then responded with his own letter .
“ Thank you for your Democrat public relations letter and incorrect sound bites , which are wrong in every way , ” Trump opened .
He then reiterated the points from his tweets , before laying into the Democrat further .
“ If you spent less time on your ridiculous impeachment hoax , which went haplessly on forever and ended up going nowhere ( except increasing my poll numbers ) , and instead focused on helping the people of New York , then New York would not have been so completely unprepared , ” Trump leveled .
“ . . .
You have been missing in action , except when it comes to the ‘ press . ’ ”
More from National Review

Tesla delivers 88,400 vehicles in Q1, rising over last year .
2020-04-02 21:58:14 +00:00 .
Tesla ( TSLA ) said Thursday it delivered 88,400 vehicles during the first three months of the year , topping Bloomberg - compiled expectations and last year ’s figures but declining against the prior quarter as the global auto industry suffered a demand hit and manufacturing pause as the coronavirus pandemic escalated .
Consensus analysts expected Tesla would deliver about 78,100 vehicles in the first quarter , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
The quarter marked the first in which Tesla began delivering its new Model Y cross - over vehicle and ramped production at its recently completed Shanghai Gigafactory .
The results marked a pull - back from the fourth quarter of 2019 , when Tesla delivered a record 112,000 vehicles .
They were , however , still an improvement from Tesla ’s 77,100 deliveries in the comparable first quarter of last year , a time when the company cited logistics issues in sending vehicles to customers in Europe and China .
Tesla characterized its first - quarter 2020 deliveries and sales results as its “ best ever first quarter performance , ” according to a statement .
Shares of Tesla soared 10.3 % to $ 501.27 each as of 4:17 p.m. ET .
Tesla ’s first - quarter delivery report comes after automakers Fiat Chrysler ( FCAU ) , General Motors ( GM ) and Ford ( F ) posted steep first - quarter delivery declines over last year , citing coronavirus - related disruptions as customers shirked showrooms to comply with social distancing guidelines .
Sales decreases totaled 10.4 % , 7 % and 12.3 % , respectively , for the Big Three U.S. car - makers .
Each of the companies halted North American production in mid - March , adding to supply - side constraints .
Likewise , Tesla announced March 19 that it would be temporarily suspending production at its flagship Fremont , California factory starting March 23 .
It also temporarily halted many of its operations at its New York factory .
Production at Tesla ’s Shanghai Gigafactory was briefly put on pause in late January during the height of China ’s coronavirus outbreak .
In late January , Tesla said it expected 2020 deliveries would “ comfortably exceed 500,000 units , ” rising from the about 367,500 units it handed over in 2019 .
But amid the recent coronavirus disruptions , Wedbush analyst Dan Ives said “ hitting the 500k+ unit delivery threshold for 2020 is a virtual impossibility . ”
Ives said he anticipates as many as 425,000 deliveries this year .
Tesla , meanwhile , has assured investors it has a robust enough balance sheet to weather temporary disruptions as a result of the coronavirus .
In its March 19 announcement , Tesla said its cash position at the end of the fourth quarter of 2019 was $ 6.3 billion , before its $ 2.3 billion common stock offering in mid - February .
“ We believe this level of liquidity is sufficient to successfully navigate an extended period of uncertainty , ” Tesla said in the statement at the time .
Shares of Tesla were up 15 % for the year to date through Wednesday ’s close , but have halved since hitting a record closing high of $ 917.42 in February .
This post is breaking .
Check back for updates .
People wearing face masks are seen inside a Tesla showroom at a shopping mall in Wuhan , Hubei province , the epicentre of China 's coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , March 30 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Aly Song
More —
Emily McCormick is a reporter for Yahoo Finance .
Follow her on Twitter : @emily_mcck
Read more from Emily : Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , LinkedIn , and reddit .
Find live stock market quotes and
the latest business and finance news

Republican Senator Calls on ‘Communist’ WHO Director to Resign .
2020-04-02 19:38:31 +00:00 .
Senator Martha McSally on Thursday called on the director of the World Health Organization to step down , saying the organization covered up the extent of the spread of the coronavirus , which originated in China .
The Arizona Republican called WHO director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus a “ communist ” and accused him of helping China conceal its underreporting of coronavirus case numbers .
“ I ’ve never trusted a communist , ” McSally said in an interview with Fox Business .
“ I think Dr. Tedros needs to step down , ” she continued .
“ We need to take some action to address this issue .
It ’s just irresponsible , it ’s unconscionable what they have done here while we have people dying across the globe . ”
The senator condemned China itself for failing to acknowledge and curb the virus before it spilled over China ’s borders and spread to the rest of the world .
“ Their cover - up of this virus that originated with them , has caused unnecessary deaths around America and around the world .
The WHO needs to stop covering for them , ” McSally said , adding that as restitution , any U.S. debts to China “ should be forgiven , as a minimum . ”
The senator ’s criticism comes days after another GOP senator , Rick Scott of Florida , called for a congressional investigation into the WHO and questioned whether the organization should continue to be funded since it engaged in “ helping Communist China cover up ” the seriousness of the virus .
“ We know Communist China is lying about how many cases and deaths they have , what they knew and when they knew it — and the WHO never bothered to investigate further , ” Scott said .
“ Their inaction cost lives . ”
The WHO also “ willfully parroted propaganda ” from China ’s Communist Party , Scott charged .
During an interview with Radio Television Hong Kong , WHO assistant director - general Dr. Bruce Aylward appeared to dodge a question about whether the WHO will reconsider granting membership to Taiwan , which China claims as a territory .
Taiwan , which has reported just slightly more than 300 cases of the infection and only two deaths , has been widely praised for its containment of the coronavirus .
The senior WHO advisor responded that he could not hear the question , and when the interviewer offered to repeat it he interjected , “ no , that ’s
okay , let ’s move to another one then . ”
Later , he appeared to hang up when asked about Taiwan ’s response to the pandemic , and afterwards said they had “ already talked about China , ” which has done “ quite a good job . ”
The U.S. intelligence community concluded in a classified report obtained by Bloomberg News that China deliberately provided incomplete public numbers for coronavirus cases and deaths resulting from the infection .
In December , local and national officials issued a gag order to labs in Wuhan after scientists there identified a new viral pneumonia , ordering them to halt tests , destroy samples , and conceal the news .
The U.S. now has nearly 240,000 cases of the coronavirus around the country , and more than 5,000 have died .
Worldwide , more than 50,000 people have died from the respiratory illness .
More from National Review

See inside the 3,000-bed coronavirus hospital being built in the largest convention center in North America .
2020-04-02 18:19:20 +00:00 .
CHICAGO – The largest convention center in North America is being converted into a 3,000 - bed alternate care facility for COVID-19 patients , and photos released by the U.S. Air Force show how the conversion is unfolding .
The 2.6 - million - square - foot McCormick Place Convention Center in downtown Chicago is expected to host patients with mild symptoms who do n’t require intensive care , freeing up hospital beds for more severe coronavirus cases .
The build - out of three areas of the campus was expected to take place in phases over the next few weeks , with up to 500 beds assembled by the end of the week .
Illinois Gov. JB Pritzker has activated 30 Airmen from the Illinois National Guard to assist with the build - out , which was being supported by $ 15 million in federal funding from FEMA .
Here 's what the conversion looks like inside McCormick Place .
Members of the Illinois Air National Guard assemble medical equipment at the McCormick Place Convention Center in response to the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic in Chicago on March 30 , 2020 .
More
About 30 members of the Guard were activated to support the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to temporarily convert part of the convention center into an Alternate Care Facility for virus patients with mild symptoms who do not require intensive care in the Chicago area .
More Illinois is seeing a surge of coronavirus cases , particularly in Cook County , where Chicago is located .
More
Get daily coronavirus updates in your inbox : Sign up for our newsletter now .
In New York :
An emergency field hospital is opening in Central Park
Controversial coronavirus testing sites under investigation for ' scams ' in Kentucky
Illinois originally announced a stay - at - home order on March 20 , but Gov. JB Pritzker has extended that order through the end of April .
More
McCormick Place convention center in Chicago .
Saturday , March 28 , 2020 .
More
The United States Army Corps of Engineers expected to complete the 3,000 - bed hospital by April 24 .
More

Colombian rebel group calls temporary ceasefire over pandemic .
2020-04-02 17:30:06 +00:00 .
Colombia 's last recognized leftist guerrilla group , the ELN , has announced a month - long ceasefire in response to the coronavirus pandemic , a statement released Monday said .
The rebels said they would unilaterally suspend military action from April 1 " as a humanitarian gesture . "
The statement was disseminated by a group of Colombian senators who are seeking to establish a peace process with the group .
The National Liberation Army , the group 's formal name , noted a recent appeal by UN Secretary - General Antonio Guterres for a halt to conflicts worldwide as nations grapple with the pandemic , and said that Colombian organizations had made similar requests .
Guterres welcomed the move and hoped the ceasefire " can bring in measures of relief to communities and vulnerable groups in conflict affected regions in Colombia , and help the authorities to focus on fighting the pandemic . "
He called on the other armed groups operating in Colombia " to do likewise "
Ivan Cepeda , a leftist senator who was among those who made public the rebel statement , said the ELN reserved the right to defend itself against attacks by government forces .
He said it would also respond similarly to drug trafficking groups with whom it vies for control in some areas .
" We call on the government of ( President Ivan )
Duque to order its troops to remain in barracks , " the statement said , and urged him to reactivate contacts with its representatives in Havana to negotiate a bilateral truce .
- ' Not far enough ' -
But the government 's High Commissioner for Peace , Miguel Ceballos , said the guerrillas ' announcement did not go far enough .
" We have just learned of the ELN 's decision to cease fire for a month .
I believe that the country hopes for much more than that .
We face a huge challenge , thousands of people can die , " Ceballos said in a radio interview .
Colombia had 798 confirmed cases of the virus as of Monday , including 12 deaths .
The ELN , which is said to operate in about 10 percent of the country , has some 2,300 combatants and an extensive network of supporters in urban centers .
It is the last formal guerrilla group left in the country after the government reached a peace agreement with the larger Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , in 2016 .
Some former FARC rebels have since taken up arms again , however .
Peace negotiations began with the ELN the following year , first in the Ecuadoran capital Quito , and later in Havana .
But Duque , a conservative who succeeded Juan Manuel Santos -- who delivered the FARC peace deal and opened discussions with the ELN -- ended the talks after a January 2019 car bomb attack on a Bogota police academy that killed 21 recruits .
Duque has said he would only reopen talks if the ELN releases all its hostages and ceases its " criminal activity . "
Bogota has repeatedly accused neighboring Venezuela 's leftist regime under Nicolas Maduro of harboring the guerrillas and condoning drug trafficking inside its border .
Caracas denies the accusations .
In its statement , the ELN criticized the government 's handling of the health crisis and said the coronavirus had been artificially created and spread by the United States .
A Colombian soldier guards a checkpoint in rural Jamundi , Valle del Cauca , on February 14 , after the ELN threatened a three - day " armed strike " against the government ELN guerrillas patrol a jungle river in Colombia 's Choco department on May 23 , 2019
Firefighters , soldiers and workers from the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR)setting up a field hospital for coronavirus cases on the border with Venezuela , on March 28 , 2020

Coronavirus Outbreak: UK Death Toll Rises By 260 To 1,019 .
2020-04-02 15:25:46 +00:00 .
At least 1,019 people have now died in the UK after contracting coronavirus , the most recent government figures have revealed – an increase of 260 in 24 hours .
The latest figures , accurate as of 5 pm on Friday , mark by far the most significant increase in deaths since the start of the outbreak .
It means the total number of deaths is 34 % higher than the equivalent figure yesterday .
This is the largest day - on - day percentage increase since March 18 , when the total rose from 71 to 104 ( a 46 % jump ) .
It took 13 days for the number of deaths in the UK to go from one to just over 100 .
It has taken a further 10 days for the total to go from just over 100 to just over 1,000 .
Meanwhile the number of people tested in the UK for coronavirus has now passed 120,000 .
The total as of 9 am on March 28 was 120,776 .
Just under 50,000 tests ( 47,958 ) were carried out in the seven days to 9 am March 28 .
In the previous seven days the number was 35,072 .
The total number of confirmed cases of coronavirus in the UK now stands at 17,089 , as of 9 am March 28 .
One week ago , on March 21 , the total stood at 5,018 .
The latest figures are correct as of 5 pm on Friday .
More
Related ...
Continue reading on HuffPost

WHO concerned by 'rapid escalation' of virus, as U.S. death toll nears 5,000 .
2020-04-02 15:10:44 +00:00 .
The head of the World Health Organization has voiced deep concern over the “ rapid escalation ” and global spread of the new coronavirus pandemic , as the United States nears a grim milestone of 5,000 deaths .
“ Over the past five weeks , we have witnessed a near exponential growth in the number of new cases , reaching almost every country , territory and area , ” WHO Director - General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesuss told a virtual news conference at the organisation 's Geneva headquarters on Wednesday .
“ The number of deaths has more than doubled in the past week .
In the next few days we will reach 1 million confirmed cases , and 50,000 deaths , ” he added .
The stark warning comes as the United States barrels towards marking 5,000 coronavirus - related deaths , with more than 4,800 already recorded across the country as of early Thursday morning .
On Wednesday , the death toll in New York state jumped 25 percent in just 24 hours to nearly 2,000 dead , according to NBC News ’ tally .
Full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak
Having first emerged in China in December , four months later it is the United States that has registered by far the highest number of coronavirus cases , more than 210,000 as of Thursday , according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University .
The total number of people infected worldwide has now surpassed 940,000 and the number of coronavirus related deaths recorded has breached 47,500 , according to Johns Hopkins .
However , the numbers are believed to be much higher due to limited numbers of tests in many countries , differences in counting the dead and a large number of mild cases believed to have gone unreported .
While the United States has recorded the highest number of cases , Italy has outstripped other nations when it comes to coronavirus - related deaths , with more than 13,000 according to Italian authorities .
On Wednesday evening , Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte signed a decree extending Italy ’s lockdown measures until April 13 .
The current lockdown was due to elapse on April 3 .
Conte said he was sorry that the lockdown would include Easter celebrations but that the country could not “ lower our guard , now that we are seeing the first results of the restrictive measures . ”
His comments came after the president of Italy 's National Institute of Health told reporters that his country 's coronavirus curve had reached the stage before the contagion begins to decline .
On Thursday Spain confirmed it had passed the 10,000 death mark .
But despite its high death toll , experts there say they have witnessed some positive developments in recent days .
Fernando Simón , head of the country 's emergency coordination center , said Wednesday that he believes Spain has reached its own peak .
Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak
“ All data indicate we ’re going in the right direction .
But we must maintain the measures implemented to further reduce risk of infection , ” he told reporters via Skype .
The number of coronavirus patients in intensive care units in Madrid also decreased for the first time on Wednesday .
However , only time will tell whether these positive assessments last .
Meanwhile , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ’s office announced Thursday that he would be in isolation until next Wednesday after Israel ’s health minister tested positive for the coronavirus .
The decision was made following the recommendation of his personal physician and the instructions of the ministry of health , his office added .
The Associated Press contributed to this report .

3 Reasons F Stock Can Bounce Back From an Economic Downturn .
2020-04-02 11:12:36 +00:00 .
There were some announcements by Ford ( NYSE : F ) last week that , combined with other tailwinds , helped spark a 15 % in F stock Wednesday .
3 Reasons F Stock Can Bounce Back From an Economic Downturn
More
Source : Proxima Studio / Shutterstock.com
First , the company said it will be doing its part to ensure that hospitals have the medical equipment they need to fight the coronavirus pandemic .
The company is working with General Electric ( NYSE : GE ) subsidiary GE Healthcare to produce hospital ventilators that can be mass - produced .
Ford also plans to begin manufacturing full - face shields for hospital workers and first responders .
The company plans to produce up to 100,000 protective shields per week .
InvestorPlace - Stock Market News , Stock Advice Trading Tips
And the sentiment toward F stock rose even higher after lawmakers reached a tentative agreement on the $ 2 trillion economic stimulus package .
This was good news for the automaker and gave investors some much - needed relief .
The COVID-19 crisis is far from being resolved , but there are many reasons to be hopeful about Ford ’s ability to bounce back from the economic downturn .
Listed below are three reasons to be optimistic about F stock in the coming year .
1 .
Ford Can Survive Shutdowns
On March 18 , Ford announced that it was suspending production at its factories in the U.S. , Canada , and Mexico until at least March 30 .
The company plans to take this time to clean the facilities and review its inventory levels .
Even after Ford reopens its factories , it ’s likely that the company will face a decrease in demand over the next year .
However , Ford has ample cash reserves that will allow the company to survive extended factory shutdowns .
Since 2009 , the company has maintained a cash reserve of at least $ 20 billion , with an additional $ 10 million available on lines of credit .
2 .
Ford Is Conserving Cash
In the past week , Ford has taken several steps to converse cash and improve its balance sheet .
Last week , the company announced it was temporarily suspending dividend payments .
In 2019 , the company paid over $ 2 billion in dividend payments , so that alone is a substantial savings opportunity .
Ford also announced that it is borrowing over $ 15 billion from its two existing credit lines .
This will allow the company more flexibility over the coming months .
3 .
Ford Will Continue Investing
Like many companies , Ford is going to be looking for ways to conserve cash .
But that does n’t mean the company will stop focusing on product development .
In the future , the company still plans to move forward with electric vehicles and self - driving cars .
Overall , Ford has given itself a little breathing room and the company will be okay for the time being , in spite of the lost revenue .
The biggest question F stock investors need to consider is how quickly the economy will recover after the pandemic is over .
If the country moves into a recession , then Ford ’s problems could last a lot longer than a couple of months .
Jamie Johnson is a personal finance freelance writer and has been writing for InvestorPlace since mid-2019 .
She writes for a number of other well - known financial sites , including Credit Karma , Quicken Loans and Bankrate .
As of this writing , Jamie Johnson did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities .
More From InvestorPlace
The post 3 Reasons F Stock Can Bounce Back From an Economic Downturn appeared first on InvestorPlace .

Costco senior hours: Costco Wholesale Clubs add third weekly senior hour due to coronavirus demand .
2020-04-02 08:27:00 +00:00 .
Costco Wholesale Club will now offer three senior shopping hours a week amid the coronavirus pandemic and is allowing “ those with physical impairments ” to also participate .
After originally starting the special hours March 24 as a twice - weekly event for members 60 and up on Tuesdays and Thursdays , Costco quietly added Wednesdays as the third day .
The retailer edited its March 21 Facebook post announcing the special temporary senior hours Friday to note the change and updated its website Saturday about the special operating hours .
“ On Tuesdays , Wednesdays , and Thursdays , Costco warehouses will open from 8 to 9 a.m. for members ages 60 and older , and for those with physical impairments , ” Costco ’s website notes .
When will stores closed due to COVID-19 reopen ?
: With the coronavirus growing , not soon .
Some are closed indefinitely .
Senior shopping times : Stores offer special hours for vulnerable customers amid coronavirus Costco store pharmacies also will be open earlier but food courts will maintain normal hours , according to the website .
The hours apply to all stores except for the company 's Business Center locations , which will remain open during regular hours .
In responding to comments on its Facebook page , Costco said only members meeting the criteria " will be allowed to enter the warehouse and guests will not be admitted . ”
Starting March 30 , Costco is temporarily cutting weekday hours and stores will close at 6:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and gas stations will close at 7 p.m. Costco ’s website update on Saturday notes other changes such as a limited food court menu and new return restrictions .
Warehouses are not accepting returns of toilet paper , bottled water , sanitizing wipes , paper towels , rice and disinfecting spray .
Costco cutting hours : Stores , gas stations as of March 30 will be open fewer hours because of coronavirus crisis
Acknowledging that older adults and persons with underlying health conditions are more susceptible to COVID-19 , a growing number of stores have been dedicating time or opening earlier for senior shoppers and other at - risk groups .
Because of panic shopping , which has left store shelves empty in many places across the country , at - risk groups including seniors have had difficulty getting supplies .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus senior shopping : Costco Wholesale Club expands hours

Chinese AI unicorn 4Paradigm raises another US$230 million, bringing valuation to US$2 billion .
2020-04-02 06:02:54 +00:00 .
Chinese artificial intelligence ( AI ) start - up 4Paradigm raised US$ 230 million in its latest funding round , bringing its net valuation to about US$ 2 billion , despite a slowdown in investments in China amid the coronavirus pandemic .
The funding round has attracted new strategic investors including American technology conglomerate Cisco Systems and the world ’s largest PC maker Lenovo , according to a company statement on Thursday .
Sequoia Capital remains the company ’s largest external shareholder .
“ With its latest funding round completed , 4Paradigm will now accelerate the pace and scale of helping global enterprises achieve digital transformation through AI , ” added the company , which said it started expanding to Europe and Southeast Asia in 2019 .
Founded in 2014 by industry veterans that used to work for Chinese search engine giant Baidu , the Beijing - based company has been promoting the rapid and scaled industrial application of AI , and has won favour among state - backed banks – all five of China ’s largest banks are its investors .
The new funding is a strong vote of confidence from investors at a time when the world ’s second largest economy is being hit by the pandemic and venture capital investments are drying up .
Fundraising by Chinese start - ups slumped nearly 60 per cent in January to February 21 compared to the same period in 2019 , according to data by Preqin , which tracks the alternative assets market .
4Paradigm , which provides clients a suite of software tools that let them run complex algorithms on their data without needing to employ highly trained engineers , attained unicorn status with a valuation above US$ 1 billion in end-2018 .
The company ’s machine learning technology has been used in more than 10,000 cases in a wide variety of industries including finance , retail , health care and manufacturing , according to its website .
Amid the coronavirus pandemic , 4Paradigm said it has also been at the “ front line of the fight against Covid-19 since the beginning ” , developing applications for screening , real - time scenario analysis and contact tracing .
At the same time , it has also helped clients to shift workflows and business models online , as well as seize new opportunities for digital businesses , it said in the statement on Thursday .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Chinese AI unicorn 4Paradigm raises another US$ 230 million , bringing valuation to US$ 2 billion first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Journalists are skipping Trump's daily coronavirus press briefings, saying they don't have enough news value .
2020-04-02 02:17:39 +00:00 .
Reporters are skipping President Donald Trump 's daily coronavirus news briefings , and TV networks are increasingly choosing not to broadcast them live , because they believe they do n't have enough news value to risk breaking social - distancing rules .
In recent days there have been scores of empty seats in the White House press - briefing room , where Trump has delivered updates on the US battle against the novel coronavirus alongside public - health officials .
But instead of delivering key information and sober assessments of the situation to the American public , Trump has frequently resorted to tactics more familiar from his raucous campaign rallies : boasting of his accomplishments , floating misinformation , attacking the press , and taunting Democrats — with Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York a favored target .
According to The Washington Post , reporters are now " keeping their distance because they are concerned about the health risks at a time when many consider the president 's evening news conferences to have become increasingly less newsworthy . "
Trump with Vice President Mike Pence and the infectious - disease expert Anthony Fauci at the March 20 coronavirus press briefing .
More REUTERS / Jonathan Ernst
After two White House correspondents were recently suspected of having the virus , top media outlets including The Post , The New York Times , and CNBC stopped sending veteran correspondents to cover the briefings , The Post reported .
" Nowadays , it seems they make little news , " The Times ' executive editor , Dean Baquet , told The Post .
" We , of course , reserve the right to show them live [ via web streaming ] if we believe they will actually make news .
But that has n't happened in quite some time . "
' The information no longer appeared to be valuable to the important ongoing discussion around public health '
Cable networks have also skipped Trump 's briefings .
For more than a week , networks including CNN and MSNBC have been cutting away from Trump 's briefings — or not showing them at all .
In response to criticism from the White House last week for not showing the president 's briefing in full , MSNBC told The Hill in a statement that it was n't broadcasting the full briefing " because the information no longer appeared to be valuable to the important ongoing discussion around public health . "
During his press briefings , Trump has fielded questions and directed attacks at reporters from TV networks , including PBS ' Yamiche Alcindor , whose probing questions frequently provoked the president 's ire .
Trump abruptly changed his tone on the coronavirus this week .
On Sunday , he announced that US lockdown measures would be extended until April 30 , and on Tuesday he unveiled new projections suggesting up to 240,000 Americans could die from COVID-19 even with strict measures to fight it .
But he has also continued to use briefings in recent days to attack reporters , solicit praise , and spread claims about unproven cures .
Business Insider

Coronavirus: Mike Pence tries to blame China and own US health agency for slow response to contagion .
2020-04-01 20:34:10 +00:00 .
US Vice - President Mike Pence blamed China and the US government ’s own top health authority for missteps that have led to the rapid spread of the coronavirus in America .
Pence made the comments after Bloomberg News reported that the US intelligence community concluded in a classified report to the White House that China has concealed the extent of the contagion ’s outbreak in its country .
Speaking to CNN , Pence suggested that the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) should not have played down the contagion ’s spread as it began to take hold in the country and accused China of delaying notification the rest of the world about the coronavirus ’ spread .
“ I will be very candid with you and say that in mid - January the CDC was still assessing that the risk of the coronavirus to the American people was low , ” Pence said when asked why President Donald Trump had initially minimised the threat .
“ The very first case , which was someone who had been in China , which I believe took place in late January . ”
“ What appears evident now is that long before the world learned in December that China was dealing with this , and maybe as much as much as a month earlier than that , that the outbreak was real in China , ” Pence said .
The Bloomberg report , which cited US government sources , said the classified report to the White House concluded that China ’s public reporting on cases and deaths was intentionally incomplete .
The first US cases of coronavirus infection through “ community spread ” , or without any known connection to a region badly affected by the disease , were reported in the west coast states of Washington and California in the last week of February .
The first US death from Covid-19 , the disease caused by the virus , was confirmed in Washington state on February 29 .
Pence ’s comments pick up where a volley of recriminations between Washington and Beijing over responsibility for the pandemic left off last month .
After a phone call last week with his Chinese counterpart , Xi Jinping , Trump backed away from his earlier criticism of China for covering up what its local health authorities knew in December about the emergence of the coronavirus .
Trump has also stopped using the term “ Chinese virus ” .
Members of Pence ’s White House coronavirus task force said on Tuesday that Covid-19 may kill 100,000 to 240,000 Americans before the contagion is brought under control in the US .
The country has more than 200,000 confirmed cases and recorded over 4,500 deaths .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : Mike Pence tries to blame China and own US health agency for slow response to contagion first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Coronavirus pandemic ruins outlook for a world of electric and autonomous cars .
2020-04-01 19:59:38 +00:00 .
With Detroit ’s Big Three automakers and Elon Musk ’s Tesla making ventilators to support the coronavirus pandemic relief effort , no doubt the shift to electronic and autonomous cars has suffered a major setback .
For one , electric and hybrid cars are n’t being made right now as plants are shut down to support social distancing .
Who knows when auto production restarts .
Moreover , it ’s unclear what demand will be like for these often more expensive cars when consumers try to catch up on bills later this year after being laid off this spring .
Meanwhile , automakers have temporarily halted investments in the technology designed to power the cars of the future ( not to mention a good chunk of their advertising for them ) .
And last but not least , the plunge in oil prices — which has sent gas prices to below $ 1.00 a gallon in some parts of the country — makes it more attractive for people to own a car with a good old fashioned gas engine .
Take all these factors together , and you see a vastly different road ahead for electric and autonomous cars looking out the next several years .
“ There has been a setback , ” TPG Global senior advisor and former Ford CEO Mark Fields said on Yahoo Finance ’s The First Trade .
Fields is credited with putting Ford on track to play aggressively in the electric and autonomous car future as CEO from 2014 - 2017 .
Add Fields , “ This is going to be another casualty , if you will of COVID-19 , in which an environment where you have consumer purchasing power severely impacted .
And the fact that electronic cars are still viewed as luxury items because they are more expensive than internal combustion engines . ”
Fields is also cautious on how the major automakers will reallocate funds during the eventual recovery to autonomous car technology .
“ It does n’t make sense for an automaker to be spending at the same pace on the autonomous future when your number one priority is surviving the non - autonomous present .
So those investments will be slowing down , ” Fields added .
( AP Photo / Isaac Brekken )
More
Outdated forecasts for electric cars
The next shoe to drop , at least from an investor standpoint , is Wall Street marking down , big - time , their long - term growth forecasts for electric cars in light of the coronavirus pandemic .
Analysts could also make adjustments to profits for the Big Three automakers to account for write - offs on electric and autonomous car investments .
Remember , it ’s these rosy sales forecasts that have primarily underpinned the rallies in electric car stocks such as Tesla .
Take the projections of JPMorgan as a prime example .
By 2025 , JPMorgan estimates that hybrid electric autos will account for 30 % of all vehicle sales .
Plug in electronic cars are expected to have a 7.7 % market share of the auto industry by then , JPMorgan estimates .
This long - range research was released in late 2018 .
And it seems wildly outdated in the wake of the coronavirus and in a world of $ 20 a barrel oil .
Be prepared for another valuation reset , electric - car bulls .
Brian Sozzi is an editor - at - large and co - anchor of The First Trade at Yahoo Finance .
Follow Sozzi on Twitter @BrianSozzi and on LinkedIn .
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , SmartNews , LinkedIn , YouTube , and reddit .

Coronavirus: Universal Credit Applications Skyrocket To 950,000 Since Lockdown In UK .
2020-04-01 19:52:25 +00:00 .
Get the latest on coronavirus .
Sign up to the Daily Brief for news , explainers , how - tos , opinion and more .
The number of people applying for the universal credit welfare payment has surged in the two weeks since Boris Johnson put the UK into lockdown , with 950,000 attempting to get hold of the benefit .
The total in the aftermath of the drastic move to curb the spread of coronavirus is more than nine times higher the usual 100,000 applicants for a two - week period .
The surge reflects falls in income as well as unemployment as firms go bust or lay off staff because they can not afford to wait for the governments ’s bail - out scheme .
As businesses , shops , restaurants and bars are closed , the government has offered to pay 80 % of employees ’ wages if their company keeps them on - but there is no incentive for an employer to apply for this .
A YouGov survey on March 24 found that one in 20 people in Britain had already lost their job due to coronavirus .
A spokesman for the Department of Work and Pensions said : “ With such a huge increase in claims there are pressures on our services , but the system is standing up well to these and our dedicated staff are working flat - out to get people the support they need . ”
Universal credit is a benefit for working - age people that includes jobseeker ’s allowance , housing benefit and child tax credit .
The seismic shift in the UK comes after the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefit shot up to a record high of over three million in the week ending March 21 , dwarfing the previous peak of 665,000 in a week in 1982 .
Meanwhile , the Salvation Army has called for advance payments for Universal Credit claimants to be given as grants , not loans , to prevent a “ coronavirus debt crisis ” .
Claimants wait five weeks for a first payment after applying for the benefit but can take out an advance loan to help during this time .
But the Salvation Army said this could plunge thousands of citizens into debt , calling it a “ point of critical failure that the government must address ” .
Since the Covid-19 outbreak , the Department for Work and Pensions ( DWP ) has seen a surge in benefits claims , with almost 950,000 new claims since March 16 .
Rebecca Keating , the Salvation Army ’s director of employment plus , said : “ The universal credit loan system could cause a coronavirus debt crisis .
“ Thousands of people who never thought they would have to rely on state support are now making a universal credit claim .
“ Many of these will be forced to take out the bridging loan which will just move their money problems five weeks down the line .
“ We are particularly concerned by those working on zero hour contracts that do n’t have the same legal rights of other employees .
“ Many will not have a financial safety net to help avoid getting into debt straight away . ”
Related ...
It 's Totally Normal
To Feel Weird , Anxious Or Scared
Right Now .
We 're In A Period Of Grief Top Tips For Surviving A Lockdown – From The People Living It
Right Now Couples ' Must Move In Together ' If They Want Physical Contact During Coronavirus
Love HuffPost ?
Become a founding member of HuffPost Plus today .
This article originally appeared on HuffPost .

2 Underperforming Holdings to Reduce .
2020-04-01 17:43:03 +00:00 .
Even when we take into consideration the short - term overall market declines due to the novel coronavirus pandemic , some companies have underperformed over the past several years and likely would have fallen even without the influence of the bear market .
Thus , shareholders may want to consider reducing holdings in Helios Technologies Inc ( NASDAQ : HLIO ) and GreenSky Inc ( NASDAQ : GSKY ) .
First of all , these companies have underperformed the SP 500 over the past year , two years and three years .
Second , they disappoint from a dividend payment standpoint compared to the SP 500 's 2.25 % as of March 31 .
Third , Wall Street sell - side analysts have issued moderate sell recommendation ratings for these two stocks .
Helios Technologies Inc Shares of the Sarasota , Florida - based manufacturer and seller of solutions for hydraulics and electronics businesses in North America and internationally have fallen 19.4 % in the past year , 30 % over the past two years and increased by only 5 % over the past three years through March 31 .
The stock has underperformed the SP 500 index by 12.2 % , 28 % and 4.4 % , respectively .
Currently , Helios Technologies pays a quarterly dividend of 9 cents per common share , generating a dividend yield of 0.95 % as of March 31 .
The next payment should be made on April 20 .
Year to date , the share price ( $ 37.92 as of March 31 ) fell 18 % .
The market capitalization is approximately $ 1.22 billion , the price - earnings ratio is 20.17 and the price - sales ratio is 2.19 .
GreenSky Inc Shares of the Atlanta - based tech provider of point - of - sale financing and payment solutions to several clients in the U.S. have fallen by 68 % in the past year , 82.7 % in the past two years and 82.2 % in the past three years through March 31 .
They underperformed the SP 500 index by 60.8 % , 80.6 % and 91.6 % , respectively .
GreenSky Inc does not pay dividends .
The share price ( $ 3.82 as of March 31 ) dropped 57 % so far this year .
The market capitalization is $ 687.2 million , the price - earnings ratio is 7.64 and the price - sales ratio is 1.29 .
Disclosure : I have no positions in any securities mentioned .
Read more here : Not a Premium Member of GuruFocus ?
Sign up for a free 7 - day trial here .
This article first appeared on GuruFocus .

New Jersey Rate of Virus Increases Is Diminishing, Governor Says .
2020-04-01 16:43:03 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy said the rate of increase in new coronavirus cases is slowing but that it may be an “ imperfect ” measurement because the state is testing only people who are showing symptoms .
It could be a week or more to see whether social distancing is helping to slow the virus ’ spread , Murphy said Wednesday in a Bloomberg TV interview .
New Jersey has the second - highest number of virus cases after New York , with 18,696 positives and 267 deaths as of March 31 .
The state has been under a stay - at - home order since March 21 , with schools and non - essential businesses closed .
Cases rose in the last day by 12 % , after weeks of daily increases of 20 % or more .
The governor cautioned that those results may be from tests taken several days ago and that they do n’t necessarily tell a real - time story .
Murphy ’s top priority this week has been securing ventilators ahead of an expected surge in Covid-19 hospitalizations .
His administration also is working to acquire masks , gloves and other protective equipment , as well as to recruit health - care workers .
“ We need to bolster their ranks , ” Murphy said .
He said he signed an executive order Wednesday for license waivers and other exceptions to allow out - of - state medical professionals to work in the state .
The governor , a retired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. senior director , said it ’s too early to calculate the financial impact to the state ’s finances , this fiscal year or next .
“ Our expenses are through the roof , ” he said .
“ Our revenues have fallen off a cliff . ”
Murphy and legislative leaders earlier Wednesday announced an agreement to extend the deadline for his proposed $ 40.9 billion budget by three months .
New Jersey ’s constitutional deadline is June 30 for the fiscal year that starts July 1 , but it will be pushed to September 30 , according to a statement from the governor ’s office .
Murphy and fellow Democrats also agreed to add three months to the April 15 tax - filing deadline , as the federal government and New York have done .
“ By the end of July , we ’ll have a good sense of where the year is coming out , ” Murphy said .
( Updates with detail on deadlines starting in seventh paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Czech brewers bet on bottles as pubs dry up amid virus .
2020-04-01 15:05:37 +00:00 .
Czech breweries have switched from barrels to bottles and cans after demand for draught went down the drain as pubs in the world 's most beer - loving nation closed amid the COVID-19 pandemic , experts said Wednesday .
To stay afloat , three out of the four largest Czech brewing groups -- Pilsner Urquell , Staropramen and Budejovicky Budvar -- said they have stopped filling kegs altogether .
" We ( now ) produce more beer in bottles and cans , we have seen 15 - percent growth in domestic demand for packaged beer , " Staropramen spokeswoman Denisa Mylbachrova told AFP .
The Czech government closed pubs and restaurants , except takeaway venues , on March 14 across the central European country where , statistically , each Czech consumes 141 litres ( 37 gallons ) of beer a year , the world 's highest rate of consumption .
Since then , demand for beer in kegs , normally making up 40 percent of total Czech beer output , has sunk to zero , Martina Ferencova , head of the Czech Beer and Malt Association told AFP .
Exports , in turn , were hit when the Czech government closed the borders on March 16 .
Large breweries like Staropramen can still do relatively well owing to contracts with supermarket chains selling their products in bottles and cans .
But the once - vibrant sector of nearly 500 micro - breweries is on the brink of disaster .
" The average decrease in output is 80 percent , because small breweries do n't have the filling capacities , " said Jan Suran , head of the Czech - Moravian Association of Micro - breweries .
" The small breweries do n't have the sales channels so they sell almost nothing , " he told AFP .
Many Czech pubs have found a way to comply with the new rule by selling beer through a window , creating a makeshift takeaway service .
Some craft breweries have also begun offering takeaway and delivery sales to avoid going under .
" They are holding on somehow , but if this ( closed pubs ) lasts until the end of April , which is highly probable , I guess about 20 percent of them may go under . "
" And if it lasts a month longer , then it will be almost 50 percent , " said Suran , a Prague pub and brewery co - owner .
An EU member of 10.7 million people , the Czech Republic had by Wednesday registered 3,330 confirmed cases of the virus including 32 deaths .
Pilsner Urquell is one of the Czech breweries switching from kegs to ottles and cans as the bars shut and people do more beer drinking at home

Coronavirus: Most travellers returning to the UK won't be checked for coronavirus, government says .
2020-04-01 14:55:41 +00:00 .
People entering the UK will not be checked for coronavirus unless they show symptoms , the Housing Secretary has confirmed .
Tory MP Robert Jenrick said passengers who landed at airports would be taken down ‘ one route ’ if they were symptomatic but others would be ‘ allowed to enter the country ’ .
Jenrick told ITV ’s Good Morning Britain the UK was taking a ‘ different approach ’ from other countries after taking advice from medical experts .
He said : “ A lot of the tests that you could do in airports , like testing someone ’s temperature for example , are not necessarily helpful or accurate ways of assessing whether someone has coronavirus .
“ We have been guided in our approach at airports , as elsewhere , by scientific and medical opinion and I appreciate that some other countries have taken different approaches there . ”
Housing , Communities and Local Government Secretary Robert Jenrick ( Picture : AP )
More
The Government is coming under increasing pressure over COVID-19 testing as the UK experienced its biggest day - on - day rise in deaths so far .
Some 2,352 patients had died in hospital after testing positive for the virus as of 5 pm on Tuesday , the Department of Health said , up by 563 from 1,789 the day before .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of COVID-19 cases in your local area 6 charts and maps that explain how COVID-19 is spreading
It comes as Downing Street said more than 2,000 NHS staff have been tested for coronavirus as the Government faces intense scrutiny over its policy on testing .
Around 8,000 test per days are currently being carried out across the UK even though ministers previously claimed a target of 10,000 tests per day had been hit .
At present , the focus is on testing patients in hospital to see if they have coronavirus , with NHS trusts told earlier in the week they should use up to 15 % of any spare testing capacity for NHS staff .
Health Secretary Matt Hancock has now scrapped that cap , telling NHS hospital labs to use all spare capacity to test their frontline workers .
The Government has blamed a global lack of reagents needed to carry out tests , though the chemical industry in the UK suggested there were no shortages .
Jenrick told Radio 4 ’s Today programme testing capacity should hit 15,000 in the next few days .
The minister also said he expects there to be 25,000 tests per day by the “ middle of April ” .
Coronavirus : what happened today ?
Click here to sign up to the latest news , advice and information with our daily Catch - up newsletter

Coronavirus UK Death Toll Rises By 393 To 1,801, With Healthy 19-Year-Old Among Victims .
2020-04-01 13:51:12 +00:00 .
Updated : See the latest stories on the coronavirus outbreak .
A further 393 deaths from coronavirus have been recorded in the UK over 24 hours – including that of a 19 - year - old with no underlying health conditions .
The increase consists of 367 in England , 13 in Scotland , six in Northern Ireland and seven in Wales .
It brings the total number of coronavirus deaths in the UK to 1,801 .
The data are taken from each nation ’s individual reporting .
Coronavirus ( Photo : Statista )
More
Later on Tuesday afternoon , the Department for Health and Social Care tweeted that 1,789 people had died – 12 fewer than the four nations had cumulatively reported .
The reason for the discrepancy was not immediately clear .
Meanwhile , as of 9 am on Wednesday , 25,150 people in the UK had tested positive for the virus .
The NHS said that those who died in England between 5 pm on Sunday and 5 pm on Monday were aged between 19 and 98 .
All but 28 of the patients had underlying health conditions .
The 19 - year - old was the youngest of those who did not , with other previously healthy victims aged up to 91 .
Earlier in the day , the Office for National statistics revealed the virus had accounted for 1 % of all deaths in England and Wales in the week ending March 20 – 103 cases in total .
Those figures included people dying outside of hospitals whose death certificates mentioned Covid-19 , including in combination with other health conditions .
Infographics provided by Statista .
Electronic bilboards displays a message warning people to stay home in Sheffield as the UK continues in lockdown to help curb the spread of the coronavirus .
( Photo : PA )
More Related ...
What The UK Government ’s Coronavirus Figures Actually Tell You – And What They Do n’t
Seven Things You Need To Know About Coronavirus
Today
Coronavirus Caused 1 % Of All Deaths In England And Wales Week
Ending March 20 Love HuffPost ?
Become a founding member of HuffPost Plus today .
This article originally appeared on HuffPost .

U.S. private payrolls post first decline in 2-1/2 years .
2020-04-01 12:49:44 +00:00 .
By Lucia Mutikani WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - U.S. private payrolls dropped in March for the first time in 2 - 1/2 years , likely as businesses shut down in compliance with strict measures by authorities to contain the coronavirus pandemic , supporting economists ' views that the longest employment boom in history probably ended last month .
The ADP National Employment Report on Wednesday showed private payrolls fell by 27,000 jobs last month , the first decline since September 2017 , after advancing by an unrevised 183,000 in February .
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast private payrolls falling by 150,000 jobs in March .
The smaller - than - expected decline was because establishments were surveyed in mid - March , before many states and local governments ordered residents to stay at home unless on essential business .
Restaurants , bars and other social - gathering venues also were shuttered to slow the spread of COVID-19 , the respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus .
The United States has the highest number of confirmed COVID-19 cases , with almost 188,000 people infected .
Nearly 4,000 people in the U.S. have died from the illness , according to a Reuters tally .
The ADP report , jointly developed with Moody 's Analytics , was published ahead of the government 's more comprehensive employment report for March scheduled for release on Friday .
While it has a poor record predicting the private payrolls component of the government 's employment report because of methodology differences , economists said it could offer some clues on the size of anticipated job losses in March .
Economists believe that the longest employment boom in U.S. history , which started October 2010 , came to an end in March .
According to a Reuters survey of economists , the government report on Friday is likely to show private payrolls declined by 163,000 jobs in March after increasing 228,000 in February .
Overall , nonfarm payrolls are forecast to have dropped by 100,000 jobs last month as some of the drag from business shutdowns was offset somewhat by government hiring for the 2020 Census .
The unemployment rate is forecast as rising three - tenths of a percentage point to 3.8 % in March .
The government reported last week that the number of Americans filing claims for unemployment benefits vaulted to a record 3.28 million in the week ended March 21 .
Claims for jobless benefits are expected to have scaled another record peak last week .
Data for the week ending March 28 will be published on Thursday .
( Reporting by Lucia Mutikani ;
Editing by Chizu Nomiyama )

The early symptom which could mean you're in a coronavirus 'sub group' .
2020-04-01 08:27:40 +00:00 .
A common early warning sign for those suffering from coronavirus could put them in a unique “ sub group ” of infected patients , a study claims .
An examination of 206 patients who were admitted in February into Union Hospital in Wuhan , China , where the outbreak began , has revealed diarrhoea and other digestive issues is an early , and sometimes only , symptom of the virus in those with a mild infection .
With more than 80 per cent of patients contracting a less severe form of the disease , the study , published by the American Journal of Gastroenterology , aimed at identifying the “ unique sub - group ’s ” symptoms so patients to not unknowingly infect others .
Woman suffering from aches .
Source : Getty
More
The group of mild patients with digestive problems , with or without respiratory symptoms , were compared to a group presenting only respiratory issues until they were cleared of the virus .
COVID-19 : 6 charts and maps that explain how coronavirus is spreading around the world
Director of health research services at Los Angeles ’ Cedars - Sinai Health System , Dr. Brennan Spiegel , who co - authored the study , told Today “ COVID-19 is not just a cough ” , according to 7 News .
“ Of course , we ’re very focused on the lungs because that ’s what can cause people to die .
But this virus , if it gets into your saliva and you swallow it , can then enter the intestinal system , ” he said .
The virus targets cells through a receptor that is found in higher numbers on the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract compared to the respiratory organs , according to the study .
“ If you unfurl your intestines , you have almost a tennis court worth of surface area .
So you have this huge area where the virus can just start to replicate itself over and over again , ” Dr Spiegel said .
“ It seems that ’s happening in some patients who have the GI version of this disease . ”
COVID-19 ‘ unique sub - group ’
Out of the 206 patients , 48 people presented to hospital with digestive symptoms , 69 with both digestive and respiratory symptoms , and 89 with respiratory symptoms .
Almost 20 per cent of 67 patients who reported suffering from diarrhoea said it was their first symptom prior to respiratory issues and lasted up to two weeks , according to the study .
“ The rest developed diarrhoea within the first 10 days after the onset of respiratory symptoms , ” the study reads .
“ In some cases , the digestive symptom , particularly diarrhoea , can be the initial presentation of COVID-19 and may only later ( or never ) present with respiratory symptoms . ”
Ultimately , it was determined the group of patients are more likely to test positive for coronavirus through their stool , to have a longer delay before the disease clears , and experience delayed diagnosis .
“ These data emphasises that patients with new - onset diarrhoea after a possible COVID-19 contact should be suspected for the illness , even in the absence of cough , shortness of breath , sore throat , or even fever .
These patients should self - quarantine and seek medical care if not already under evaluation . ”
Do you have a story tip ?
Email :
newsroomau@yahoonews.com .
You can also follow us on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play .

Chinese province bars citizens from leaving the country to stop coronavirus spread .
2020-04-01 07:59:45 +00:00 .
The southwestern province of Yunnan has banned Chinese citizens from leaving the country via its more than 30 land and river ports to stop the spread of the coronavirus epidemic through returning nationals .
Yunnan , which borders Vietnam , Laos and Myanmar , had restricted its 19 land ports and 14 river ports to cargo , the provincial government said on Tuesday .
The authorities said that from Tuesday night , all departures by Chinese citizens via the checkpoints would be suspended , with exemptions granted for approved foreign aid , technical support or emergency medical workers .
China closed its borders to foreign travellers and residency holders on Saturday .
But non - Chinese residents of border areas who have permits to cross into Yunnan could still enter the province , according to a previous report by China News Service .
Those permit holders can still cross into Yunnan but will be discouraged from doing so .
Under the new restrictions , they will need to test negative for two nucleic acid tests and one antibody test before being put in seven days of centralised isolation and another seven days of home isolation , all at their own expense .
Residents in border cities and counties will be restricted to the village and community level to prevent entry and exit of outsiders .
They would also be encouraged to report illegal immigrants , the government said .
Yunnan , which recorded 174 local coronavirus cases including two deaths , said all patients in its initial wave were discharged by March 14 .
The province is now on alert for imported cases , with eight patients who travelled to the province from overseas being treated as of Tuesday .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Chinese province bars citizens from leaving the country to stop coronavirus spread first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Coronavirus confusion in Russia after Putin announced a nationwide vacation and people took to the streets. Two days later the Kremlin had to clarify people were meant to stay at home. .
2020-04-01 06:12:54 +00:00 .
Mikhail Klimentyev / TASS / Getty
On March 25 , President Vladimir Putin announced Russia would have a week - long paid vacation to stop the coronavirus .
People thinking he meant an actual vacation took to the streets , according to The New York Times .
Two days later , the Kremlin had to clarify that people were being told to stay at home , and those who could work from home should continue to do so .
Russia had reported about 2,337 cases of COVID-19 and 17 deaths as of Tuesday .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Russian President Vladimir Putin told all of Russia they could have a week - long paid vacation .
Two days later , the Kremlin had to clarify people were meant to be staying home , and those working from home should continue to do so .
Putin made his announcement on March 25 .
It was a precautionary measure to stop the coronavirus from spreading .
But afterward , " the streets of Moscow and other cities filled with people enjoying their time off , " according to The New York Times .
The holiday was meant to run from March 28 to April 5 , and workers were guaranteed their salaries , The Guardian reported .
Two days after Putin 's announcement , on an unplanned conference call with the media , the Kremlin interceded and clarified that people were meant to be staying home .
Tourists in Palace Square in central St Petersburg during the pandemic of the novel coronavirus on March 21 .
More
Alexander Demianchuk / TASS / Getty
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told reporters that people who had been working remotely would continue to do so , according to Bloomberg .
" It 's not days off or holidays in the classical understanding of that word , " he said .
University classes across the country had also been canceled after Putin 's announcement , but Peskov said they should still happen .
He said this was n't a change to the holiday , he was just clarifying what the holiday entailed .
The number of COVID-19 cases is rising in Russia .
As of Tuesday , Russia had about 2,337 cases and 17 deaths , according to Business Insider 's David Choi .
On March 30 , The Washington Post reported that the reality of the coronavirus in Russia , which previously appeared to be in a better condition than much of Europe or China , was beginning to show .
A number of signs backed this up , including reports about struggling hospitals , as well as Putin appearing in photos at a hospital wearing protective clothing — a visual acknowledgment of the crisis .
Putin made the holiday announcement after telling Russia it " can not isolate itself from the threat , " according to The New York Times .
Read the original article on Insider

FairPrice outlet at Bedok Mall temporarily shut after staff member contracts COVID-19 .
2020-04-01 05:43:09 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE — A FairPrice Finest outlet at Bedok Mall has been temporarily closed after one of its employees tested positive for COVID-19 .
The staff member was diagnosed on Tuesday ( 31 March ) evening and has since been quarantined in accordance with the Ministry of Health ’s ( MOH ) guidelines , said NTUC FairPrice ( FairPrice ) in a statement on Wednesday .
“ The affected staff works in the backend replenishing stock and has minimal contact with customers , ” said FairPrice .
It added that the employee was last at work on 25 March , was on leave on 26 March and visited a doctor for a fever on 27 March .
The employee has since been on medical leave and FairPrice is “ extending all the necessary assistance to the affected staff and the employee ’s family during this time ” .
Meanwhile , the outlet will be closed for three days to undergo deep cleaning procedures and will re - open on 4 April .
“ FairPrice is monitoring the situation closely and is working with authorities to assist them with contact tracing and ensure all stores are safe for customers and staff , ” said FairPrice .
During the closure , the nearest available FairPrice outlet in the vicinity of Bedok Mall is located at Block 212 Bedok North Street 1 .
Stay in the know on - the - go : Join Yahoo Singapore 's Telegram channel at http://t.me/YahooSingapore
More Singapore stories : Jiu - jitsu world champion Constance Lien among 17 new spexScholars
Malaysian motorists stuck in Singapore due to MCO get one - off waiver of VEP fees
Husband of woman killed by collapsed tree in Botanic Gardens in 2017 sues NParks

Inside GM's and Ventec's rush to build ventilators for coronavirus patients .
2020-04-01 00:50:11 +00:00 .
Ventec 's VOCSN multi - function ventilators , which integrate five separate medical devices .
/ Reuters
Who could have imagined that the coronavirus pandemic would be , in part , an automotive story ?
More than that : Automakers , in particular GM and Ford but also plenty of others , may wind up being some of the story 's heroes .
The New York Times had a glimpse inside the GM effort the other day , and now The Seattle Times ' Geoff Baker provides a better sense of the timeline by which General Motors and Ventec Life Systems , of Bothell , Washington , went from perfect strangers to partners in mass - producing Ventec 's innovative multifunction ventilators — devices that might ultimately save the lives of hundreds of thousands of Americans .
This is all happening astonishingly fast .
Two weeks ago , the project seemed dead before it had even begun , Baker reports .
The Ventec machine has 700 components .
But one of them was made in India , in a factory that was in coronavirus lockdown .
Without that part , the machine might as well be a doorstop .
“ GM literally sent people there that night to India to get boots on the ground to help us get that factory opened , ” Ventec CEO Chris Kiple told The Times .
“ It changed the conversation . ”
GM had to get that supplier going again , as well as that supplier 's suppliers on back up the chain , and it had to surmount many other problems on other fronts .
But just as Ventec brings its technology and patents to the table , GM brings a century of experience making a thing — many copies of a thing — and pulling together a worldwide web of suppliers and resources to do it .
Kiple said his company had sought a partner since early March .
Thirty seconds into his first call with GM on March 19 , he knew he 'd found it .
“ Where we had talked to many other people , GM went into action , ’’ Kiple said .
“ There was no talk .
… It was just , ‘ What do you need ? ’’ ’
That call was the 19th .
By the 20th , GM had people in India solving that supplier problem .
By the 22nd , GM had dozens of people in Bothell who then fanned out .
The Times describes how GM zeroed in on a $ 4 million parts order from a crucial supplier in neighboring Woodinville .
Ventec builds 250 ventilators a month in Bothell .
With GM 's help , it 'll get that number up to 2,000 .
Meanwhile the partners expect to start building machines at a GM plant in Kokomo , Ind. , in mid - April and quickly ramp up to 10,000 a month there , for a total monthly output of 12,000 .
And , Kiple says , GM is doing this at cost .
That 's right :
From initial phone call to mass production of a complex device that GM previously knew nothing about .
In a month .
It 's difficult to understand how " GM was wasting time , " which was the White House 's accusation last Friday before President Trump eventually sang a different tune on Monday .
A feeling of pride would be the more appropriate response .
For the full story , visit The Seattle Times , which is providing free access to all coverage on the pandemic .

Business Shut? Stuck at Home? You Still Need to Do Mexican Taxes .
2020-04-01 00:28:21 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Felipe Morales is asking his accountant to scour his books for any deduction as he prepares his annual tax filing due end of day Tuesday .
Business at his two Italian restaurants in the heart of Mexico City has fallen over 70 % this month amid mounting concern over the coronavirus outbreak .
“ I do n’t know why they have n’t launched a strategy or a fiscal stimulus , ” he said .
“ On taxes , they ’re cracking down , and we do n’t know what ’ll happen . ”
While U.S. taxpayers have been given until July to file , Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador ’s officials have told taxpayers to hurry up and send in their checks .
March 31 is the deadline for Mexican companies to file 2019 returns .
Many companies have seen revenues collapse this month as much of the country began to shut down .
On Monday night , the government declared a national emergency to limit “ non - essential activities ” though details were still thin on how the shutdown will be implemented .
At the same time , the drop in Mexican oil prices for export to below $ 11 per barrel is putting at risk federal income from one of the government ’s main sources : state - owned oil company Petroleos Mexicanos .
Read More : After Dragging Feet , Mexico Enters a New Stage in Virus Fight
On Tuesday , Mexico ’s leading business group , the Consejo Coordinador Empresarial , urged the government to delay the annual tax filing deadline for six months and allow for lower monthly payments going forward , as well as other measures .
The group said Mexico should heed recommendations for tax relief by the Organisation for Economic Co - operation and Development or risk widespread layoffs .
“ These measures will allow companies the minimum liquidity needed in order to preserve employment , ” the group known as CCE said .
Taxpayers have faced “ serious ” difficulties with the tax agency ’s information systems that has impeded them from filing on time , the CCE said .
Lopez Obrador has pledged not to increase the country ’s debt , so he has n’t budged on his views that tax payments are needed to keep the federal government afloat .
‘ Tough Decisions ’
Before the coronavirus crisis blew up , Lopez Obrador had launched a campaign against widespread tax evasion in Mexico , focused on bigger companies .
Mauricio Martinez , a partner at Deloitte in Mexico City , said there was no sign yet that the government would listen to the pleas from the private sector .
“ Without a tax stimulus plan , a lot of businesses will soon be strapped for cash , and they will have to make tough decisions on what to pay , ” Martinez said .
Felipe Morales , the restaurant owner , said he has n’t fired staff yet , and will be able to make his tax payment Tuesday , but he does n’t know if he will have the liquidity to make his April filing .
Upcoming monthly dues are based on earnings from the prior year even though many companies have seen revenues collapse this month .
“ Relief or an extension , the government will probably end up doing something , ” Morales said .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

North Carolina granting more tax relief in response to coronavirus .
2020-03-31 20:44:08 +00:00 .
North Carolinians and businesses worried about paying their taxes this spring will get more relief with the latest changes by the state Department of Revenue .
Secretary of Revenue Ronald G. Penny announced Tuesday that the state is expanding tax relief as part of Gov. Roy Cooper ’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic .
There were about 1,500 cases of COVID-19 in North Carolina as of Tuesday .
The state already followed the Internal Revenue Service ’s lead in delaying both filing and payments for income taxes from April 15 to July 15 .
There will be no penalties for late filing or payment of North Carolina sales and use and withholding taxes through July 15 .
Already announced by the state are no penalties for late filings and payments of individuals , corporations , partnerships , trusts and estates .
“ These measures will come as welcome tax relief for individuals and businesses across North Carolina , ” Penny said in a news release .
“ We are providing the maximum flexibility under existing state law . ”
There will be no penalties for failure to obtain a license , failure to file a return or failure to pay a tax that is due from March 15 through July 15 .
Other tax penalties will be waived if paid by July 15 for withholding tax , sales and use tax , scrap tire disposal tax , white goods disposal tax , motor vehicle lease and subscription tax , solid waste disposal tax , 911 Service Charge for Prepaid Telecommunications Service , dry - cleaning solvent tax , primary forest products tax and freight car line companies .
For a full list , taxpayers should visit ncdor.gov .
While the late fees will be waived , taxpayers could end up paying interest unless state lawmakers take action .
Listen to our daily briefing :
Here 's how to listen to our Daily Briefing on your favorite smart speakers and podcast playlists .
Legislative action
Another kind of tax relief — waiving interest from tax due dates — ca n’t be changed by the revenue department because of state law .
So the General Assembly would have to pass a bill , which the governor would then have to sign , to make that happen .
The current interest rate on late payments is 5 % a year .
The legislature is due to reconvene in Raleigh on April 28 for its short session .
The House Special Committee on COVID-19 has already started meeting remotely with multiple working groups to address issues related to COVID-19 , including taxes .
During a meeting Tuesday afternoon , House committee members learned about what could become a cash flow problem for the state with delays in tax revenue coming in from the state and federal level .
Delayed revenue would have to be shifted from the current fiscal year to the next one , which starts July 1 .
Rep. Pricey Harrison , a Greensboro Democrat , wanted to know how much money will be delayed coming to the state , but the legislature ’s fiscal research division does n’t know yet .
House Speaker Tim Moore , a Kings Mountain Republican , told the committee on Tuesday that he will soon issue a joint news release with Senate Leader Phil Berger and Cooper about legislation that would need to be passed for state tax relief .
“ We ’re out of session .
When we come back in April we need to be able to hit the ground running , ” Moore said .

McConnell: Impeachment 'diverted' attention from coronavirus concerns .
2020-03-31 20:07:08 +00:00 .
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell , R - Ky. , on Tuesday suggested that the January Senate impeachment trial of President Donald Trump distracted from crucial early efforts to respond to the emerging coronavirus pandemic .
During an appearance on conservative commentator Hugh Hewitt 's radio show , McConnell was asked about a POLITICO article published Monday that pointed to Sen. Tom Cotton , R - Ark. , as one of the first people on Capitol Hill to sound warnings on coronavirus .
The article quoted Cotton as blaming impeachment for diverting the government 's focus away from the threats .
When asked about Cotton 's early warnings , McConnell said : " It came up while we were tied down on the impeachment trial .
And I think it diverted the attention of the government , because everything every day was all about impeachment . "
McConnell also praised his Senate colleagues from pivoting “ from the most partisan thing you could possibly be involved in , the impeachment of a president , to a unanimous vote on a $ 2 trillion dollar package all within a couple of months . ”
McConnell also said he would look at any future coronavirus response bill produced by the House majority " like Reagan suggested we look at the Russians — trust , but verify . "
" I ’m not going to allow this to be an opportunity for the Democrats to achieve unrelated policy items that they would not otherwise be able to pass , " McConnell said .
The Senate leader also accused Democrats of wanting to " turn the President ’s handling of all this into a political liability for him . "
“ Goodness , I wish we could all just turn this off , you know , until we get to a period where we ’ve bent the curve and are beginning to get back to normal , ” McConnell said .
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer , D - N.Y. , responded to McConnell in a tweet posted later Tuesday .
" You may have been distracted by impeachment from acting to fight coronavirus , but not everyone was , " Schumer tweeted .
" I called for President Trump to declare a public health emergency to fight coronavirus on January 26 ! "
According to an NBC News tracker , the first major federal move to stem the spread of the virus came on January 31 , when the White House announced a travel ban on all foreigners who had been to China in the previous 14 days .
The impeachment trial ended just five days later when the Senate voted to acquit Trump on Feb. 5 .
But Trump continued to downplay the threat of coronavirus , claiming the pandemic was " very well under control in our country .
" Even as recently as March 9 , Trump tweeted , " Nothing is shut down , life the economy go on . "
It was n't until the World Health Organization declared coronavirus a global pandemic on March 11 before the Trump administration 's public statements around COVID-19 began to shift .

Thieves Just Stole a Van Gogh Painting From a Dutch Museum Closed by Coronavirus .
2020-03-31 17:42:46 +00:00 .
Click here to read the full article .
On Vincent van Gogh ’s 167th birthday , thieves commemorated the towering artist by stealing one of his works from a Dutch museum .
At about 3:15 am on Monday morning , thieves smashed the glass front doors at the Singer Laren Museum in the Netherlands and took The Parsonage Garden at Nuenen in Spring , the NL Times reports .
The burglar alarm was triggered , but by the time the police arrived , the culprits had already made off with the Post - Impressionist ’s 1884 work , which was on loan from the Groninger Museum .
The Singer Laren had been closed since early March due to the Covid-19 pandemic .
More from Robb Report
The oil painting was made during a two - year period when Van Gogh was living in Nuenen with his parents in a Dutch Reformed Church parsonage — his father was pastor there .
Between 1883 and 1885 , the artist documented the changing seasons in a series of paintings of the parsonage garden , and the stolen work was among them .
Van Gogh also completed his first major painting , The Potato Eaters ( 1885 ) , while in Nuenen .
Shortly afterwards he decamped to Antwerp , and then again to Paris in 1886 .
Though the exact value of The Parsonage Garden is unknown , Van Gogh ’s paintings traditionally sell for tens of millions at auction — the artist ’s current record is $ 82.5 million for Portrait of Dr. Gachet ( 1890 ) .
That price made the work the most expensive painting in the world at the time it was sold in 1990 .
Of course , this is hardly the first Van Gogh to be stolen : Two paintings were pilfered from the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam in 2002 , and were not recovered until almost 15 years later in Italy in 2016 .
Twenty more Van Gogh works were briefly stolen from the same museum in 1991 — The Potato Eaters among them — in an incredible inside job that came to abrupt end moments after it happened .
The paintings were recovered just 35 minutes after being stolen when the thieves ’s getaway car got a flat tire .
And although this is the Singer Laren ’s only Van Gogh work — the museum primarily serves to house the modernist collection of William and Anna Singer — it ’s also no stranger to art heists .
In 2007 , a break - in claimed seven statues from the museum garden , including a bronze cast of Rodin ’s The Thinker , which was eventually found , albeit in damaged condition .
The Parsonage Garden , meanwhile , is the only Van Gogh work in the Groninger ’s permanent collection .
“ It is very bad for the Groninger Museum , it is very bad for the Singer , but it is terrible for us all , ” Jan Rudolph de Lorm , director of the Singer Laren , said at a press conference yesterday .
“ Art exists to be seen and shared by us , the community , to enjoy to draw inspiration from and to draw comfort from , especially in these difficult times . ”
As of press time , the art thieves were still at large .
Best of Robb Report Sign up for Robb Report 's Newsletter .
For the latest news , follow us on Facebook , Twitter , and Instagram .

China’s biggest developer Evergrande sees sales soar thanks to nationwide discounts as rivals battle for survival amid Covid-19 .
2020-03-31 17:27:26 +00:00 .
China Evergrande , the country ’s biggest home builder , has raised its sales target aggressively after sales soared this year as its rivals struggled for survival amid the coronavirus outbreak .
The developer said on Tuesday its sales in the first quarter climbed by a fifth , mainly thanks to a nationwide campaign offering discounts at all its projects , via its mobile sales app .
“ When all the developers can not sell , we are the only one that can .
We ’ve done great amid such difficult times , ” said company chairman Hui Ka - yan , the third richest man in China .
The company announced a new target for the year 23 per cent higher than a previous one set in January .
“ Our internal target is 800 billion yuan ( US$ 103 billion ) this year and to fetch 1 trillion yuan in 2022 , ” said Xia Haijun , the country ’s chief executive officer during an online annual results briefing on Tuesday .
Hui is confident that the company can meet the ambitious target after emerging as a big winner during the Covid-19 pandemic .
The company ’s sales have soared by 20 per cent year - on - year in the first quarter , to a record high of 146.5 billion yuan , when most developers saw their sales drop sharply as sales centres shut down to contain the virus .
The home builder surprised the market by kicking off a one - and - a - half - month campaign on February 18 offering discounts of up to 25 per cent at all of its projects across the country , sold via its own mobile app .
By the end of February , more than 10,000 buyers had paid their deposits on a new home .
The billionaire chairman ’s confident remarks came as most of Evergrande ’s peers are taking a much more cautious stance amid dampened demand .
Yu Liang , CEO of China Vanke , the third largest developer by sales , said in March that survival has become a real issue , while Country Garden Holdings and Sunac China Holdings both warned that their sales in 2020 will be disrupted by a downturn in demand due to the Covid-19 outbreak .
China ’s property sales dropped nearly 40 per cent year - on - year in the first two months of the year , according to the National Bureau of Statistics .
Credit ratings agency Moody 's revised downward its forecast for the mainland property market and foresees a slight decline in sales this year .
Evergrande said it will focus on cutting land purchases and reducing debts .
It aims to reduce its interest - bearing debt by 150 billion yuan per year by 2022 to keep the company profitable and less leveraged .
Evergrande reported a core profit plunge of 48 per cent to 40.8 billion yuan ( US$ 5.7billion ) for last year , according to a filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange late on Tuesday .
Core profit soared 93.3 per cent in 2018 , 94.7 per cent in 2017 and 89.2 in 2016 .
Revenue was 477.56 billion yuan on a contracted sales of 601 billion yuan , up 9 per cent on year .
The company will pay a final dividend of 0.653 yuan per share .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article China ’s biggest developer Evergrande sees sales soar thanks to nationwide discounts as rivals battle for survival amid Covid-19 first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

J&J just sped up the timeline for its coronavirus vaccine, and said it could be ready for emergency use early next year .
2020-03-31 16:07:59 +00:00 .
Associated Press
The world 's largest healthcare company is accelerating its timeline for a coronavirus vaccine , saying it could be available for emergency use by early next year .
Johnson Johnson said Monday it has selected a lead vaccine candidate and plans to start testing it in people no later than September .
The New Jersey drugmaking giant also pledged it will ramp up manufacturing to supply 1 billion doses of a vaccine to the world .
JJ 's vaccine would be affordable to the public " on a not - for - profit basis for emergency pandemic use , " the company stated .
Previously , the company said it was aiming to start clinical trials in November .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Johnson Johnson announced Monday an accelerated timeline that could lead to a coronavirus vaccine that 's ready for emergency use in early 2021 .
JJ , the world 's largest healthcare company , said it has identified a lead vaccine candidate to bring into human testing .
Testing should begin by the fall and produce clinical results on safety and efficacy by the end of 2020 , JJ said .
" We are moving on an accelerated timeline toward Phase 1 human clinical trials at the latest by September 2020 and , supported by the global production capability that we are scaling up in parallel to this testing , we expect a vaccine could be ready for emergency use in early 2021 , " said Paul Stoffels , JJ 's chief scientific officer , in a statement .
Read more :
There are more than 40 potential coronavirus vaccines in the works .
Here are the top efforts to watch , including the 8 vaccines set to be tested in people this year .
The New Jersey pharmaceutical giant also pledged to make a vaccine affordable to the public , adding it would distribute a vaccine on a " not - for - profit basis for emergency pandemic use .
"
It said it will ramp up manufacturing to be able to supply at least 1 billion doses of a vaccine to the world .
JJ has been researching the genetic sequence of the coronavirus since January in partnership with Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center .
After producing several vaccines , they were tested to identify the most promising ones at causing an immune response .
The vaccine 's development is also being supported by the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ( BARDA ) .
JJ and BARDA have committed more than $ 1 billion to the vaccine 's development , the company stated .
The update shortens an already quick timeline for vaccine development , Previously , JJ said it was aiming to start testing a coronavirus vaccine in humans in November .
Vaccine development typically takes five to seven years before applying for regulatory approval , JJ stated .
In this case , JJ is expecting it to take about a year to go from early research to emergency approval , if needed .
There are more than 40 ongoing research programs for a coronavirus vaccine .
All are attempting to speed up the lengthy development process to halt the pandemic , and the speediest efforts have already started to be tested in humans in record time .
Read more : ' Crazy hours , short nights ' : The inside story of how a buzzy biotech upstart developed a potential coronavirus vaccine in record time US health officials , including the nation 's top infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci , have repeatedly stated it will take at least a year to know if any vaccine is safe and effective against the coronavirus .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Carnival Cruise Lines Seeks to Borrow $3 Billion, Raise $3 Billion More .
2020-03-31 15:58:13 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Cruise line operator Carnival Corp. is turning to all corners of the capital markets to raise $ 6 billion of cash , the biggest test yet of investor willingness to finance industries ravaged by the coronavirus outbreak .
The company is tapping bond investors on both sides of the Atlantic with a $ 3 billion sale of notes in U.S. dollars and euros .
The new bonds will be secured by a first - priority claim on the company ’s assets such as its vessels and intellectual property and mature in three years .
The dollar - denominated portion is being marketed with a coupon of about 12.5 % , according to people with knowledge of the transaction .
Carnival said it also plans to raise $ 1.25 billion by issuing common stock and another $ 1.75 billion through the sale of convertible notes to improve its liquidity position .
The company ’s shares fell early in the session before rebounding sharply , trading up almost 10 % as of 11:38 a.m.
New York time .
The offering is a barometer for pandemic - hit capital markets , which have faced historic upheaval in recent weeks .
While investors have been loading up on new debt from America ’s safest companies , they ’ve largely avoided riskier firms , especially those shuttered by the virus .
Even with ships as collateral , investors ca n’t be sure when Carnival will sail again after a series of Covid-19 outbreaks at sea raised concern about the safety of the industry .
When it does , the fallout is likely to weigh on consumer demand .
The cruise companies were left out of the recent federal bailout package due to their off - shore status .
Although many are headquartered in Miami , most are incorporated in places where they are n’t subject to U.S. federal income taxes and American minimum wage rules .
The cruise industry , which has large fixed costs , is now bracing for the possibility of having to go months without customers .
Carnival , the industry ’s biggest operator , is incorporated in Panama .
While it ’s still rated investment grade by Moody ’s Investors Service and SP Global Ratings , its existing unsecured bonds have been trading at distressed levels in recent weeks .
The new secured debt sale is being managed by banks ’ high - yield syndicate desks , said the people , who asked not to be identified because the details are private .
JPMorgan Chase Co. , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. are leading the bond sale , which is expected to be completed on Wednesday .
Carnival had been in discussions with banks to raise as much as $ 7 billion through equity and debt to shore up its finances , Bloomberg previously reported .
Carnival earlier this year hosted one of the most dramatic coronavirus episodes aboard its Princess Cruises - branded Diamond Princess , off Yokohama , Japan .
The Diamond Princess had more than 700 Covid-19 cases , the biggest outbreak outside mainland China for a while .
Another ship on its Holland America Line , Zaandam , is still at sea searching for a place to dock after the death of four passengers from undisclosed causes .
The company transferred passengers it believed to be healthy to another ship , and both ships are now sailing for Fort Lauderdale , Florida .
( Updates with bond sale details beginning in second paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Latest Bitcoin price and analysis (BTC to USD) .
2020-03-31 15:48:07 +00:00 .
As the typically low volume weekend looms , Bitcoin continues to act indecisively after failing to breakout above the key $ 7,000 level of resistance .
The majority of global stock markets have shown clear signs of recovery over the past three years , with the Dow Jones rallying by 26 % .
However , the rise has n’t trickled across to cryptocurrencies with Bitcoin seemingly remaining the most steady of all global assets .
A clear break below $ 6,400 will present an opportunity for bearish traders to drive it back below the $ 5,900 level of support , which will reinforce the recent death cross .
The daily 50 EMA crossed the 200 EMA the downside on 14th March , with it historically being a very bearish pattern in the history of Bitcoin .
It would not be impossible for Bitcoin to be dealt a further 50 % correction from here , which would take price to 2018 ’s low of $ 3,150 .
Much of it will depend on the impact of Coronavirus and the recovery of global stock markets , with Bitcoin showing clear signs of correlation since the turn of the year .
The Bitcoin halving later this year may also have some impact on price as it will see block rewards for miners halved from 12.5BTC per block to 6.25BTC per block , which will theoretically reduce supply .
If Bitcoin can manage to defy all odds by breaking out above $ 7,000 , this weekend price targets remain at $ 7,400 and $ 8,190 , which is also in confluence with the daily 200 EMA .
For more news , guides and cryptocurrency analysis , click here .
Bitcoin pricing
Current live BTC pricing information and interactive charts are available on our site 24 hours a day .
The ticker bar at the bottom of every page on our site has the latest Bitcoin price .
Pricing is also available in a range of different currency equivalents : US Dollar –
BTCtoUSD
British Pound Sterling – BTCtoGBP Japanese Yen – BTCtoJPY Euro – BTCtoEUR
Australian Dollar –
BTCtoAUD
Russian Rouble – BTCtoRUB About Bitcoin
In August 2008 , the domain name bitcoin.org was registered .
On 31st October 2008 , a paper was published called “ Bitcoin : A Peer - to - Peer Electronic Cash System ” .
This was authored by Satoshi Nakamoto , the inventor of Bitcoin .
To date , no one knows who this person , or people , are .
The paper outlined a method of using a P2P network for electronic transactions without “ relying on trust ” .
On January 3 2009 , the Bitcoin network came into existence .
Nakamoto mined block number “ 0 ” ( or the “ genesis block ” ) , which had a reward of 50 Bitcoins .
More BTC news and information
If you want to find out more information about Bitcoin or cryptocurrencies in general , then use the search box at the top of this page .
Here ’s an article to get you started .
As with any investment , it pays to do some homework before you part with your money .
The prices of cryptocurrencies are volatile and go up and down quickly .
This page is not recommending a particular currency or whether you should invest or not .
Disclaimer : The views and opinions expressed by the author should not be considered as financial advice .

Famed neurosurgeon Dr. James Goodrich, who separated conjoined twins, dies from coronavirus .
2020-03-31 13:31:55 +00:00 .
Famed pediatric neurosurgeon Dr. James T. Goodrich , who separated conjoined twins , died Monday .
Einstein College of Medicine in New York City attributed his death to complications associated with COVID-19 .
He was 73 .
A pioneer in his field , Goodrich developed a special method to separate twins conjoined at the skull — employing a multi - stage approach to complete the delicate work .
" Every neurosurgeon in America , maybe around the world , knew who Jim Goodrich is , " said Dr. Jeffrey Oppenheim , a neurosurgeon and chair of the Rockland County Board of Health .
Dr. James Goodrich explains the surgery that separated conjoined twins Clarence and Carl Aguirre at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx in 2004 .
Goodrich died on March 30 , 2020 , from complications of COVID-19 .
More
In 2004 , Goodrich made international headlines when he successfully separated twins Carl and Clarence Aguirre , who had come with their mother from the Philippines seeking help .
The 17 - hour surgery demanded a 16 - member surgical team .
The surgery took months to plan , with multiple surgical steps taken before the final marathon surgery to separate the boys who were fused at the top of their heads .
Still , there was a surprise : a two - square - inch section of brain that was fused instead of being separated by a plane , as doctors had anticipated .
The on - the - fly solution was up to Goodrich .
He patiently studied the tangle , turning the anesthetized boys as he examined the challenge .
Then Goodrich found a way .
A colleague after the operation called Goodrich 's approach " elegant . "
In 2016 , Goodrich was part of the team that separated Jadon and Anias McDonald , a procedure that took 27 hours .
Goodrich had consulted on hundreds of such cases worldwide .
Goodrich connected with his young patients , and had developed a dear relationship with the Aguirre boys .
For their second birthday in April 2003 , the neurosurgeon baked each a chocolate cake .
Clarence and Carl Aguirre are wheeled out of Montefiore Children 's Hospital by Dr. James T. Goodrich , Arlene Aguire , Arlene 's mom , Evelyn , and Dr. David Staffenberg .
Aug. 30 , 2004 .
Goodrich died March 30 , 2020 , of complications from COVID-19 .
More
The Aguirre family remained in New York .
" We were profoundly saddened to learn of Dr. Goodrich ’s passing , " said Larry Levine , president and CEO of Blythedale Children 's Hospital , where the Aguirre twins received post - surgery rehabilitation .
"
Jim served on our medical staff for more than 30 years , and treated children with incredibly complex medical needs . "
Equally important to Goodrich 's surgical skills , Levine said , was his bedside manner .
" He was a brilliant surgeon , a dedicated teacher and a source of tremendous comfort to parents navigating uncharted territory . "
Arlene Aguirre , the twins ' mother , mourned Goodrich on Facebook .
" I am devastated , sad and very angry , " she wrote .
" We lost the greatest person in our lives because of the damn virus . "
Clarence and Carl are now 17 .
Their mother addressed Goodrich in her Facebook post : " I ’m grateful and thankful for everything you ’ve done to us especially for the boys Carl and Clarence .
You gave me a greatest gift of seeing my boys separated and giving them a whole new lives .
We will never forget you and you will always be part of our lives . "
Goodrich 's fame in the medical community went beyond his surgical prowess .
Goodrich was an expert on medical history and had an impressive collection of rare medical books .

Record grocery sales as Britons stockpiled ahead of coronavirus lockdown .
2020-03-31 09:48:37 +00:00 .
By James Davey LONDON ( Reuters ) - Grocery sales leapt more than a fifth to a record 10.8 billion pounds ( $ 13.3 billion ) in the four weeks to March 22 , as Britons stocked up on everything from pasta to pet food ahead of a countrywide lockdown to tackle the coronavirus pandemic .
Market researchers Kantar said on Tuesday the average household spent an extra 62.92 pounds ( $ 77.36 ) over the four weeks , equivalent to adding five days worth of groceries .
" That 's even higher than levels seen at Christmas , the busiest time of year under normal circumstances , " said Fraser McKevitt , Kantar 's head of retail and consumer insight .
Sales jumped 20.6 % year - on - year , while online grocery spending was up 13 % .
Prime Minister Boris Johnson put Britain into coronavirus lockdown on March 23 .
Rival researcher Nielsen found Britons made over 79 million extra grocery shopping trips in the four week period .
Its data showed that in the last week of February and the first week of March , shoppers focused on stockpiling necessities , such as medicines , cleaning supplies , pet care items and ambient groceries , such as pasta and rice .
This continued through to the third week , with a consistent rise in sales of these " pandemic pantry " items .
In the fourth week , many shoppers started to fill their freezers too , with sales of frozen food leaping 84 % on the same period last year .
This was also the week in which the government announced the closure of pubs and restaurants , resulting in a 67 % surge in beer , wine and spirits sales .
DROP OFF
Kantar 's McKevitt expects restrictions on movement and relatively full grocery cupboards will mean the frequency of shopping trips will drop off over the coming weeks .
He reckons regular trips to smaller local stores are likely to continue , as people avoid travelling and social distancing queues at larger stores with one - in - one - out policies in place .
" While much - reported panic buying has been concentrated to a relatively low number of individuals so far , we anticipate that this too will subside as consumers gain confidence in the retailers ' abilities to maintain grocery supplies , " McKevitt added .
Over the 12 weeks to March 22 , Sainsbury ’s , Britain 's No . 2 supermarket group was the fastest growing of the traditional big four players , with growth of 7.4 % , followed by market leader Tesco at 5.5 % , Walmart owned Asda at 4.9 % and Morrisons at 4.6 % , " Kantar said .
Iceland benefited from shoppers stocking up on frozen items , with sales up by 11.7 % .
Market share and sales growth ( % )
12 wks to 12 wks to pct change
March 22 March 24 in sales 2020 2019
Tesco 26.8 27.3 5.5
Sainsbury 's 15.3 15.3 7.4 Asda 15.0 15.4 4.9
Morrisons 10.0 10.3 4.6
Aldi 8.2 8.0 11.0
Co - operative 6.2 6.1 9.4 Lidl 6.1 5.6 17.6
Waitrose 5.0 5.0 7.5
Iceland 2.2 2.1 11.7
Ocado 1.5 1.4 12.5
Source : Kantar ( $ 1 = 0.8120 pounds )
( Reporting by James Davey ;
editing by Paul Sandle and Mark Potter )

Argentina Says It Aims to Avoid Default Amid Lockdown Extension .
2020-03-31 05:40:17 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Argentina said it will still try to avoid a costly default , even as it extends a nationwide lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus .
President Alberto Fernandez said that the country would still prioritize avoiding a default on its overseas debt , even though the already struggling economy will be hampered by a government - ordered lockdown , now in effect until April 12 .
Fernandez ’s assurances comes as Argentina tries to renegotiate $ 69 billion in overseas debt and rework a deal with the International Monetary Fund , a process that began before the virus led to a historic crash of global markets .
Argentina had originally said it hoped to reach an agreement with private creditors by March 31 , but later conceded that the deadline might be altered .
“ It ’s never good to be in default .
Our idea is the same as it was on Day 1 : We need time , ” Fernandez said in a interview on local station Radio con Vos .
“ Today we can not pay and now have more support for that argument . ”
Fernandez also said that Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro ’s attitude has complicated Argentina ’s efforts to stop the virus ’ spread .
A lack of measures could cause Brazil to “ enter the same spiral as Italy , ” one of the hardest - hit countries by the virus .
Argentina has been praised for its aggressive measures to stop the spread of COVID-19 , closing the country ’s borders and halting most foreign and domestic flights before announcing a countrywide lockdown March 19 .
Argentina ’s GDP is now expected to contract 5.4 % in 2020 from 1 % previously , according to a Goldman Sachs forecast .
Read more : Argentina Sacrifices Economy to Ward Off Virus , Winning Praise Argentina ’s financial response to the crisis has included measures like extra payments for low - income parents and retirees , a 10,000 - peso ( $ 155 ) transfer for informal and some independent workers in April , and a price freeze on 2,300 essential products .
As of March 30 , Argentina has reported 820 cases of the virus and 21 deaths .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Trump says nationwide stay-at-home order is "pretty unlikely" at this point .
2020-03-31 04:53:24 +00:00 .
President Trump said a nationwide stay - at - home order , like the ones states have been implementing on their own , is " pretty unlikely " at this time .
The possibility of such an order has been floated and discussed , but the president has been reluctant to impose such an extreme measure at this point .
It 's a step that has been taken by Italy , the country with the highest number of COVID-19 fatalities .
"
Well we 've talked about it , there are obviously there are some parts of the country that are in far deeper trouble than others , " Mr. Trump said during Monday 's Coronavirus Task Force briefing .
He added that his administration would let people know if such a drastic step is to be taken , but he thinks it 's " pretty unlikely . "
On Monday , more states , including Maryland and Virginia , issued stay - at - home orders , with Virginia 's slated to last until June 10th — far later than any state so far .
The president said the U.S. is " sort of putting it all on the line this 30 days , " after he extended his earlier April 12th target for getting the country back to work to April 30 .
Mr. Trump has been eager to get the economy back on track , but said he was persuaded to extend social distancing guidelines after public health experts presented him with models showing as many as 2 million Americans could die without mitigating action .
Mr. Trump had hoped that Americans would begin to resume their normal lives by Easter Sunday , but the president told reporters on Sunday that the date had been " aspirational . "
Instead , recommendations from the federal government for Americans to work from home , limit social gatherings to no more than 10 people and avoid travel will remain in place until April 30 .
CBS News mourns loss of colleague Maria Mercader
Reverend Timothy Cole shares his coronavirus experience
Lessons to learn from South Korea 's successful coronavirus fight

Vegas invited homeless to parking lot after virus closed shelter .
2020-03-31 04:09:51 +00:00 .
Officials are facing criticism for using a Las Vegas parking lot as a temporary shelter after a facility was closed when a homeless man tested positive for COVID-19 last week .
Officials from Las Vegas and Clark County opened the temporary shelter at an event site lot a few miles north of the Las Vegas Strip on Saturday after determining that 500 people using Catholic Charities ' overnight facility would have nowhere to sleep , said David Riggleman , the city 's communications director .
The lot initially included carpeting , but officials later ditched it over concerns that it could help spread the virus , Riggleman said in an email .
When mats that could easily be disinfected were n't available , hundreds of 6 - foot squares were painted onto the asphalt and surrounded by metal barricades — a grid meant to prevent more cases of the disease through social distancing measures , he said .
Full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak
But after images of people on the ground with little more than a sheet and a blanket were published , observers pointed out — among other things — that thousands of Las Vegas hotel rooms were sitting empty because of a statewide , monthlong coronavirus ordinance .
Among the critics is Julián Castro , the former Democratic presidential candidate who was secretary of Housing and Urban Development in the administration of President Barack Obama .
" Las Vegas is now packing people into concrete grids out of sight , " he tweeted .
" There are 150 K hotel rooms in Vegas going unused right now .
How about public - private cooperation ( resources ) to temporarily house them there ?
And fund permanent housing ! "
Added another commentator : " Nevada , a state in one of the richest countries in the world , has painted social - distancing boxes on a concrete parking lot for the homeless to sleep in . "
" This is America , " said a third .
Riggleman said two local facilities — a Salvation Army - run overnight shelter and a city - run " courtyard " that offers homeless services — could have accommodated those who otherwise would have stayed at Catholic Charities .
But concerns over social distancing led officials to " very quickly " set up the shelter at the 55 - acre Cashman Field site , which includes a shuttered convention center .
Download the NBC News app for full coverage and alerts about the coronavirus outbreak
Riggleman said people were n't allowed into the center itself because it may later be used as a hospital space .
He said that the county was drafting a plan to house people in hotels but that the shelter was closed before the plan could be rolled out .
On Sunday , 117 people stayed at the temporary shelter , which will remain open until Friday , he said .

Australian economic stimulus package: how much governments have committed to coronavirus crisis .
2020-03-31 03:52:21 +00:00 .
The $ 130bn support package announced by the Morrison government on Monday is the largest plank in a raft of measures to keep Australians in jobs and support those out of work , unprecedented in its scale .
Every state and territory has announced stimulus packages that , along with the impact of Covid-19 - related closures on their revenue , are expected to put them all in deficit .
Related :
Reserve Bank could lend money to super funds to help cover coronavirus withdrawals
By the end of March , the measures announced totalled $ 213.6bn in direct , on - budget spending from the federal government , $ 11.8bn from the states and $ 105bn in lending from the Reserve Bank and the federal government .
Federal government
New South Wales 17 March – state government announces a $ 2.3bn stimulus package including $ 700 m in extra health funding and $ 1.6bn in other measures including waiving payroll tax and bringing forward infrastructure investment .
27 March – government announces a second $ 1bn funding package to boost employment in Services NSW , and defer payroll taxes and other levies .
Victoria 21 March – state government announces a $ 1.7bn economic survival package including $ 500 m to support workers to transition to new jobs and a $ 500 m business support fund for the hardest - hit sectors , including hospitality , tourism , accommodation , arts and entertainment , and retail .
Queensland Western Australia
Related :
Australian government will pay half to integrate private hospitals into Covid-19 response South Australia
11 March – government announces a $ 350 m package to bring forward infrastructure spending and start new projects in road maintenance , housing , tourism and health .
26 March – government announces a second package worth $ 650 m , including $ 300 m for businesses and industries and $ 250 m for community organisations and training .
Tasmania 18 March – government announces a $ 420 m stimulus package , including $ 50 m to fast - track maintenance , $ 20 m in interest - free loans to affected business and payments of $ 250 for individuals and $ 1,000 for families required to self - isolate .
26 March – government announces a second package worth $ 565 m , including $ 150 m to purchase essential equipment and supplies , and provide additional staff to combat Covid-19 .
Australian Capital Territory Northern Territory

‘Unique’ extradition hearing for Huawei’s Meng Wanzhou as coronavirus precautions empty Vancouver courtroom .
2020-03-31 03:04:09 +00:00 .
The extradition case of Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou took a surreal turn on Monday amid Covid-19 precautions in Vancouver , with a judge presiding over a hearing in which Meng , her counsel and the Canadian government ’s lawyers all attended by telephone .
Among the key parties , only Associate Chief Justice Heather Holmes was in the courtroom for the hearing .
It was , said government lawyer John Gibb - Carsley , “ a unique case occurring in unique times , but it 's important … to keep this litigation moving forward as best as possible despite the difficult circumstances ” .
All four government lawyers phoned in from different locations , a transcript of the hearing suggested .
It was not clear from the transcript whether Meng ’s four lawyers were all in different places .
The US is seeking Meng ’s extradition on bank fraud charges relating to Huawei ’s business dealings in Iran in alleged breach of US sanctions .
She was arrested at Vancouver ’s international airport on December 1 , 2018 .
Holmes said on Monday that there would be no decision “ in the near future ” on the issue of “ double criminality ” – a requirement that extraditable suspects must be accused of something that would constitute a crime in Canada .
Meng ’s lawyers have argued that her extradition case should be thrown out because the charges against her fail the test of double criminality , since breaching US sanctions against Iran is not a crime in Canada .
They have made this argument without admitting that such breaches occurred .
Lawyers for Canada ’s attorney general , representing US interests in the case , have countered that Meng is accused of fraud for allegedly lying to HSBC bank about Huawei ’s conduct in Iran .
There were also discussions on Monday about further scheduling of Meng ’s case in light of the coronavirus pandemic .
Regular operations of the British Columbia Supreme Court were suspended on March 18 until further notice , although hearings on urgent matters continue in various forms .
Meng ’s next scheduled appearances , from April 27 to 30 , have been reduced to case management conferences that are similarly expected to be conducted by telephone .
Further appearances from June 15 to 30 are being retained in the court schedule for now .
Meng ’s extradition case upended US - China ties and sent Canada ’s relationship with Beijing plummeting to new depths .
It is expected to continue until October or November , but appeals could last years .
Meng , Huawei ’s chief financial officer and the daughter of company founder Ren Zhengfei , is living in a C$ 13.6 million ( US$ 9.6 million ) mansion , one of two homes she owns in Vancouver .
She is free on C$ 10 million bail and is allowed to travel around most of Vancouver , but she must abide by a curfew , wear a GPS monitor on her ankle and not go near the city ’s airport .
The case was adjourned until the April 27 hearing .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article ‘ Unique ’ extradition hearing for Huawei ’s Meng Wanzhou as coronavirus precautions empty Vancouver courtroom first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Bitcoin Price Decline Prompts US Mining Firm to Shut Down ‘Indefinitely’ .
2020-03-31 01:05:22 +00:00 .
Digital Farms , a California - based cryptocurrency mining company , is putting its operations on hold due to the recent decline in bitcoin ’s ( BTC ) price .
On March 18 , the miner ’s parent company , investment firm DPW Holdings , filed an update with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) on its business related to the COVID-19 pandemic , which has been heavily affecting companies and markets globally .
Among other closures and down - scalings , its mining business is being shuttered .
“ Digital Farms ’ cryptocurrency mining operations have been suspended indefinitely , primarily due to the sharp decline in the market price for bitcoin , ” the company wrote .
Related : Riot Blockchain Says Coronavirus Outbreak Might Hurt Crypto Mining Farms
Last May , DPW announced Digital Farms , formerly Super Crypto Mining , had obtained a 617,000 square foot facility in the U.S. to set up operations with “ immediate access to 28 megawatts of power and an infrastructure to support up to 300 megawatts . ”
Super Crypto Mining was acquired by DPW in January 2018 and later re - branded as Digital Farms .
According to DWP ’s annual report filed with the SEC in April 2019 , the mining operation had started off by borrowing $ 5 million from two institutional investors and buying a thousand of Bitmain ’s Antminer S9 mining machines .
Mining of bitcoin , litecoin ( LTC ) and ether ( ETH ) under the new owner kicked off in February 2018 .
See also : Miners Are Selling More Bitcoin Than They Are
Mining
The company ’s first yearly revenue from crypto mining was $ 1.67 million , a small portion of DPW ’s total $ 27 million revenue , according to the 2019 report .
The company had been planning to mine the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization and also offer cloud mining services .
Related : Bear Market Over ?
Charts on Bitcoin and ASX 200 Suggest Otherwise Discussing its scenario under the coronavirus pandemic , DWP said in the latest filing : “ Due to the unprecedented market conditions domestically and internationally , and the effect COVID-19 has had and will continue to have on the Company ’s operations and financial performance , the extent of which is not currently known , the Company is temporarily suspending guidance for 2020 . ”
Bitcoin ’s price has been dropping since February from levels above $ 10,000 , making it hard for the mining industry to return a profit .
On March 3 , wider market turmoil brought on by the growing coronavirus outbreak prompted a crash to below $ 4,000 .
Prices have since regained poise and are around $ 6,660 at press time .
Related Stories

Salesforce just granted its top execs over $5 million in cash bonuses, including $2.35 million to CEO Marc Benioff .
2020-03-31 00:41:58 +00:00 .
REUTERS / Elijah Nouvelage Salesforce is awarding over $ 5 million in cash bonuses to its top five executives .
CEO Marc Benioff alone will receive nearly half of that : He 'll be paid $ 2.3 million in bonuses on April 15 .
While the bonuses are an annual occurrence , this year 's awards come amid an economic downturn that has led to widespread of layoffs across the country and record unemployment .
Benioff has pledged not to make any " significant " layoffs at Salesforce for the next 90 days , after urging all CEOs to take 90 - day no layoff pledge .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Salesforce is awarding over $ 5 million in bonuses to its top five executives , according to a regulatory filing on Monday .
CEO Marc Benioff will receive $ 2.35 million , or nearly half the total .
The bonuses , which will be paid around April 15 , are a standard annual occurrence and reflect the executives ' performances over past year .
This year 's payouts , however , provide a starker - than - usual contrast to conditions across the U.S. as the coronavirus pandemic has ravaged the economy , triggering mass layoffs and leading to record rates of unemployment .
Benioff , who had a base salary of $ 1.55 million in 2019 , recently called on all CEOs to take a 90 - day " no layoff pledge " as part of an eight - point plan to deal with the coronavirus crisis .
He then tweeted that Salesforce , for its part , would not to make any " significant " layoffs for the next 90 days , though notably did not ban them all together .
Salesforce is also one of several tech companies that have committed to continuing to pay their hourly workers while offices are closed .
Benioff said on the company 's earnings call in late February that Salesforce would be able to withstand the impact of the ongoing coronavirus outbreak , though in the company 's March 9 10 K filing it acknowledged several potential effects from coronavirus , including those it ca n't yet predict .
Beyond Benioff , the board also approved cash bonuses based on corporate performance goals for CFO Mark Hawkins ( $ 750,000 ) , CTO and cofounder Parker Harris ( $ 750,000 ) , COO Bret Taylor ( $ 675,000 ) , and chief engineering officer Srinivas Tallapragada ( $ 675,000 ) .
The board also approved these executives ' salaries and bonuses for the 2021 fiscal year , which started February 1 and will end January 31 , 2021 .
Here are the salaries and target bonuses for 2020 for Salesforce 's top five executives :
Benioff : salary of $ 1.55 million with 200 % annual target bonus CFO Hawkins : salary of $ 1 million with 100 % target bonus CTO Parker Harris : salary of $ 1 million with 100 % target bonus .
Chief engineering officer Srinivas Tallapragada : salary of $ 950,000 with 100 % target bonus COO Taylor : a salary of $ 1 million with 100 % target bonus ( Taylor became COO on December 12 , 2019 ) Got a tip ?
Contact this reporter via email at
pzaveri@businessinsider.com
or Signal at 925 - 364 - 4258 .
( PR pitches by email only , please . )
You can also contact Business Insider securely via SecureDrop .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Pelosi aims to move fast on next rescue package .
2020-03-31 00:40:32 +00:00 .
“ It is clear that we need to do more , and that is particularly true when it comes to protecting the health and safety of frontline health workers , ” House Education and Labor Committee Chairman Bobby Scott ( D - Va. ) told reporters earlier Monday .
The bill could see a vote on the floor within weeks .
The House is scheduled to be out until April 20 , and lawmakers are eager to avoid a return to the Capitol until absolutely necessary amid the fast - spreading coronavirus outbreak .
Pelosi said the House would likely vote on the package after they return from the Easter and Passover holidays in late April , though there ’s always the possibility lawmakers return sooner if Congress is needed to act .
Alternatively , if lawmakers are far from a deal , they may stay away for longer .
“ I do think that it is really important that as soon as we are here , we are ready to pass legislation , ” Pelosi said .
Three days after Trump signed the $ 2 trillion bill , it ’s not immediately clear how much more help might be needed .
But top Democrats have been vocal about pushing for another rescue measure — with even bigger cash payments to Americans — as the virus continues to ravage the U.S. economy and more are infected .
Initial jobless claims have soared past 3 million and public health officials are predicting potentially hundreds of thousands of deaths .
Many Democrats are also eager to make another fight for policies — like robust family and medical leave programs and stronger worker protections for first responders — that were turned down by GOP negotiators in previous bills .
Democrats have also said the federal government will likely need to send more cash to state and local governments , as well as cover the costs associated with coronavirus treatments and food assistance .
Even as he battles with some governors , Trump has also acknowledged the need to deliver more emergency funds to states .
“ States are bleeding out , ” Rep. Josh Gottheimer ( D - N.J. ) , whose district has 1,800 cases , said in an interview Monday .
“ There ’s no revenue coming in , then you add to that , the massive costs of care and treatment .
That ’s just a huge hole to dig out of .
We ’re going to need more resources . ”
Then , Gottheimer added , there are big questions about how to stimulate the economy in the weeks and months ahead when normal life begins to resume : “ Are people going to rush back to a restaurant ?
Are they going to rush back to an amusement park ?
There are going to be certain things that take longer to come back . ” Republicans , meanwhile , have said it ’s too early to consider what might be included in a potential “ Phase 4 ” package , noting that the current relief measure is in the process of being implemented .
“ Let ’s let this work .
Let ’s let this work inside America , ” House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy ( R - Calif. ) said last week .
Senate Republicans in particular are not eager to rush into another large stimulus package , particularly with a focus on infrastructure and other spending not directly related to the health crisis .
And they were quick to dismiss Pelosi ’s “ Phase 4 ” proposal as nothing more than an ideological wish list .
“ It just seems to be a fundamental difference in how we ’re approaching this and how the House is approaching it , ” Cornyn said .
Senate Republicans are also wary of getting forced to pass another House spending package that they had little input on .
While the Senate passed the “ Phase 2 ” package overwhelmingly , McConnell had to urge his caucus to “ gag and go for it ” because of concerns over its paid sick leave provisions .

Texas Blocked From Banning Abortions to Conserve Masks, Gowns .
2020-03-30 21:33:37 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
A federal judge ordered Texas to temporarily stop enforcing its ban on abortions , which state leaders had declared medically unnecessary procedures that wasted scarce medical resources needed to fight the coronavirus pandemic .
Texas ’s Republican governor and attorney general last week threatened doctors with steep fines and jail time for performing even medication abortions that do n’t require the use of personal protective equipment , such as surgical masks and sterile gloves and gowns .
Only abortions needed to save the life of the mother were allowed under the governor ’s order .
“ The executive order , as written , does not exceed the governor ’s power to deal with the emergency , ” U.S. District Judge Lee Yeakel ruled Monday .
“ But the attorney general ’s interpretation of that order constitutes the threat of criminal penalties against those whose interpretations differs . ”
“ Before fetal viability outside the womb , a state has no interest sufficient to justify an outright ban on abortions , ” Yeakel said .
The temporary restraining order is in effect until April 13 , the same day the Austin judge has set a hearing for further discussion of the matter .
The order was issued shortly after 16 states , led by Louisiana , filed papers supporting Texas ’s bid to block abortions as a waste of scarce resources and a threat to public health during the covid-19 epidemic .
The Texas attorney general ’s office had no immediate comment on the order .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Daily Jobless Claims Surge More Than 50% in Canada on Lockdowns .
2020-03-30 20:34:39 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg )
--
Jobless claims are accelerating in Canada as the coronavirus pandemic forces more and more businesses to shut , leading Prime Minster Justin Trudeau to expand a program to help keep workers on payrolls .
In the 10 days between March 16 and March 25 , some 1.55 million Canadians applied for jobless benefits , according to a senior government official with knowledge of the matter .
That means on a daily basis , claims averaged about 207,000 in the last three days of the data , compared with about 133,000 in the seven days before that .
The sharp rise in lay offs highlights how abruptly the economy has seized up .
Government - funded wage subsidies will be broadened to include all Canadian businesses experiencing losses due to the coronavirus , regardless of size , Trudeau told reporters Monday in Ottawa , expanding a program that was initially announced two weeks ago .
Businesses had been calling on Trudeau to make his wage subsidy program more generous , and they applauded Monday ’s move .
“ Keeping Canadians connected to their employers will be critical to quickly getting our economy back up and running after the crisis , ” Perrin Beatty , chief executive of the Canadian Chamber of Commerce , said in a statement .
More Pronounced
The latest jobless claims include the 929,000 unemployment applications in the seven days through March 22 , along with about an additional 620,000 claims in the first three days of last week , said the person , who spoke on condition they not be identified because the numbers are n’t public .
Claims now represent about 8 % of the labor force .
Surging claims may have prompted more pronounced action from officials .
Any company that has suffered at least a 30 % drop in revenue can apply for the fund , which will cover 75 % of wages , Trudeau told reporters Monday in Ottawa .
The program will be backdated to March 15 and cover the first C$ 58,700 ( $ 41,400 ) of a worker ’s earnings for a total of as much as C$ 847 a week .
The government ’s original plan announced in mid - March was to provide a 10 % wage subsidy for small businesses to keep employees on the payroll .
( Updates with details of government program throughout . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

'We're not playing around': Md. Gov. Hogan says arrest for coronavirus offense sends 'great message' .
2020-03-30 20:28:04 +00:00 .
ANNAPOLIS , Md. – Gov. Larry Hogan said Monday that he hoped the arrest last week of a man who violated his order against gatherings of 10 or more people would make it clear that he intends to enforce the measures aimed at slowing the spread of the coronavirus .
" Most people are abiding by them , but a few people are refusing to , " Hogan said of the measures during an interview with Fox News .
"
In this particular case , this man refused to cooperate and was arrested . "
Hogan has responded aggressively to the COVID-19 outbreak since the first cases appeared .
Maryland was one of the first states to declare an emergency and to close its schools .
And on Monday , Hogan announced he issuing a " stay at home " directive for the state , which makes it a misdemeanor for residents to leave their homes except to get food , medicine or medical treatment as of 8 p.m. EDT .
Earlier this month , Hogan issued an executive order making it a misdemeanor punishable by up to a year in jail , a fine of up to $ 5,000 , or both , for people to hold large gatherings .
On March 27 , officers arrested Shawn Marshall Myers , 41 , after he hosted about 60 people at his home for a bonfire .
It was the second time Myers held a large gathering in a week after agreeing to break up another party at his house on March 22 .
Hogan said the arrest " sends a great message out there to folks that we 're not playing around . "
" When you do something like this you 're not only endangering your life , but the lives of our fellow citizens , and we 're not going to tolerate it . "
Despite the aggressive actions designed to curb the spread , Hogan predicted that the Washington , D.C. , and the area surrounding the capital city would soon be as hard hit by the outbreak as New York , which now leads the nation in the number of confirmed cases .
" We ’ve doubled over the past just two days , and we look a lot like where New York was just a couple weeks ago , " Hogan said of the rising number of confirmed COVID-19 cases .
he said the experts " concur that we are just on the next wave of hot spots . "
There are now more than 1,400 confirmed cases in Maryland and at least 15 people have died from the illness , according to the Maryland Department of Health .
Steve Mnuchin : $ 2 trillion rescue bill should get US through 8 - 12 weeks of coronavirus outbreak Hogan said the spreading contagion in the region threatens hundreds of thousands of federal employees , many of whom are responsible for national security or are leading the federal response to the outbreak .
The Maryland Republican has been a sharp critic of President Donald Trump and considered mounting a primary challenge against him .
As the chairman of the National Governor 's Association , he said he has pressured Trump to do more to address the " tremendous shortage " of equipment facing the states and health care workers .
" The president has made the effort to communicate , but we 're still pressing because there 's still issues that all the states and the federal government , quite frankly , are having , " Hogan said , adding that Vice President Mike Pence , whom Trump appointed to coordinate the administration 's coronavirus response , " has been terrific . "
" We 're going to keep pushing , but we really are trying to work together as best we can , because we 're all in this together , " Hogan said .
On Sunday , Trump announced he was extending the federal guidelines that call for aggressive social distancing measure until April 30 .
He had previously floated the idea of lifting the restrictions is some areas as soon as Easter .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Gov. Larry Hogan : Arrest for breaking coronavirus rule sends message

Good Morning Britain's Susanna Reid is returning to the show on March 31 after 14 days of self-isolation .
2020-03-30 19:23:32 +00:00 .
Good Morning Britain 's Susanna Reid will be back presenting the programme from the studio this week following a period of self - isolation amid the coronavirus pandemic .
The host , who regularly appears alongside Piers Morgan on the ITV breakfast show , was forced to step down from her hosting duties to self - isolate after one of her children developed symptoms similar to those associated with COVID-19 .
" I am currently well but due to the new advice today I will be self - isolating for two weeks due to symptoms in my household , " she tweeted earlier this month .
" Stay well everyone . "
Related : This Morning 's Ruth Langsford and Eamonn Holmes explain why they are n't social distancing on the show Despite not being able to come into the studio , Susanna has featured on the show via video link a handful of times during her absence and during today 's ( March 30 ) chat , it was revealed that Susanna will be making a comeback on Tuesday .
"
Thank God , you 're on your last day of self - isolating .
We get you back tomorrow , " Piers confirmed .
And it seems Susanna is excited to get back into the thick of things too , tweeting a smiley face in response to the news on Twitter today .
Explaining why she made the decision to self - isolate in recent weeks , Susanna previously noted that she was following government guidelines to stay home if one member of the household develops symptoms .
" I have a perfectly normal temperature , as do all of my children , " Susanna said .
" I do n't have a cough .
I have no symptoms .
I 'm not feeling fatigued , I feel one hundred per cent healthy .
" Before the advice changed yesterday , I would have come into work .
Then , the advice changed . "
She added : " I love my work .
I love coming into work , I love the daily battles , I love interviewing , broadcasting all of this to our viewers gives me so much pleasure
and I 'm really going to miss that for two weeks .
" Good Morning Britain airs weekdays from 6 am on ITV .
The information in this story is accurate as of the publication date .
While we are attempting to keep our content as up - to - date as possible , the situation surrounding the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic continues to develop rapidly , so it 's possible that some information and recommendations may have changed since publishing .
For any concerns and latest advice , visit the World Health Organisation .
If you 're in the UK , the National Health Service can also provide useful information and support , while US users can contact the Center for Disease Control and Prevention .
Digital Spy now has a newsletter – sign up to get it sent straight to your inbox .
Looking for more TV recommendations and discussion ?
Head over to our Facebook Group to see new picks every day , and chat with other readers about what they ’re watching right now

Italy’s New Virus Cases Decline And WHO Sees Progress .
2020-03-30 19:10:21 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Italy appeared poised to extend its lockdown until Easter after it reported the smallest number of new coronavirus cases in almost two weeks and the World Health Organization forecast some stabilization in Europe as the most - afflicted country .
Italian Health Minister Roberto Speranza said in a statement late Monday that the government would follow the recommendation of its scientific advisers to extend the lockdown from the current deadline of April 3 until Easter at least .
New infections in the past 24 hours totaled 4,050 , compared with 5,217 the previous day , civil protection authorities said Monday at their daily news conference in Rome .
This is the lowest increase since March 17 .
Fatalities from the disease rose by 812 on Monday compared with 756 on Sunday , bringing the total to 11,591 .
Italy now has 101,739 total cases , the most after the U.S.
Mike Ryan , head of health emergencies at the WHO , said “ our fervent hope ” is that Italy and Spain are approaching a peak , and that European lockdowns which started several weeks ago will start to bear fruit .
New cases now reflect exposure to the disease about two weeks earlier , he said .
“ In the same way when we ’re told that we ’re looking at galaxies through a telescope that we ’re seeing life from a billion years ago , we ’re seeing a reality that existed before , ” Ryan said .
He warned that countries need to step up efforts to find and isolate patients to really fight the disease .
“ It wo n’t go down by itself .
We need countries to focus on what is the strategy . ”
Italian health authorities voiced the same line in a press conference on Monday .
Still , restrictions on economic activity to contain the coronavirus ca n’t last too long , Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said in an interview with Spain ’s El Pais Monday .
Once the curve of new infections has started to descend Italy will study measures to ease restrictions , he added .
The head of Italy ’s public health institute ISS , Silvio Brusaferro , said in an interview with la Repubblica that he expects the lockdown to be extended to Easter .
He added that , while there are encouraging signs of a contagion slowdown , it ’s too early to say and several days of diminished number of cases are needed to call it a trend .
Cases in Lombardy , the region around Milan that ’s most heavily hit , rose by 1,154 Monday to 42,161 , the smallest advance since March 13 .
Deaths rose by 458 , marking an increase from Sunday , when 416 fatalities were recorded .
” There ’s a significant drop in people going to the emergency rooms , ” top Lombardy health official Giulio Gallera said in a video message .
“ The deaths daily count will be the last one to improve , unfortunately . ”
( Updates with probable extension of lockdown to Easter starting in first paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Steph McGovern launches new show live from her living room .
2020-03-30 17:52:46 +00:00 .
Steph McGovern has launched her new television show live from her living room after being forced to alter its format because of coronavirus .
The presenter said she wanted the programme to be a “ power hour of positivity ” for viewers during “ really strange times ” .
The Steph Show ’s launch was brought forward , with producers saying they want to bring some “ much - needed joy to your day and help you navigate your way through the madness ” .
At the beginning of the programme , McGovern said it could be “ rough around the edges ” because it was being recorded outside the television studio , adding : “ But that is how I have been described for most of my career . ”
She said : “ For a long time I ’ve just been living here , in a fair amount of chaos with the baby , but now we ’re doing a show from here because , like lots of people , I ’m working from home .
“ You know what , these are really strange times so I wanted to create a power hour of positivity where we celebrate all the people doing brilliant stuff out there .
“ It might be the key workers grafting on the front line – how much do we love them at the minute ?
– but also the neighbours who are helping people with their shopping .
Steph McGovern said the new format is not what was originally planned ( Matt Crossick / PA )
More
“ We want to come together in this hour and just say thank you , we want to have a bit of a laugh , maybe get inspired , maybe learn a few things as well . ”
She added : “ This was not what we originally had planned . ”
During the programme McGovern spoke to families and workers who had been affected by the Covid-19 outbreak .
The former BBC Breakfast presenter also interviewed Strictly Come Dancing ’s Anton du Beke and comedian Keith Lemon , and took part in a home workout .
Ballroom dancer du Beke told the programme that he hoped the coronavirus would not interfere with the filming of the new series of the BBC One competition .
Anton du Beke said everyone ‘ will be ready for a bit of Strictly Come Dancing ’ once the lockdown ends ( Ian West / PA )
More
He said the professionals begin working on the show in August , with the celebrities joining shortly afterwards .
“ We are all really hoping we are out of it by then and back to some sort of normality , ” he said .
“ I think everybody will be ready for a bit of Strictly Come Dancing by then , do n’t you ? ”
Du Beke added that he is having the “ best time ” during lockdown as he gets to spend a lot of time with his family .
– The Steph Show airs daily on Channel 4 from Monday March 30 at 12 pm .

Nepali asylum seeker gets two months in jail for stealing rice packets from Hong Kong store .
2020-03-30 17:44:09 +00:00 .
A Nepali asylum seeker who stole six packets of rice from a Hong Kong supermarket with another man has been jailed for two months amid a food shortage scare caused by the coronavirus pandemic .
West Kowloon Court heard Raj Sharma , 21 , admitted to stealing the rice “ out of greed ” after a security guard caught him carrying two packets out of Aeon Store in Whampoa last Friday .
But Sharma told investigators it was not his idea to commit the theft , and that he was “ invited ” to take part and deliver the items to an unknown man at a park on Temple Street in Kowloon , in exchange for food and money .
His Bangladeshi co - defendant , Riyad Hossain , 33 , who was accused of stealing the four remaining packets of rice , has asked for more time to seek legal advice after prosecutors linked him to four other cases of theft at the same store , between February 23 and March 17 .
Many Hongkongers thronged supermarkets to stock up on rice , amid worries that Vietnamese authorities might ban rice exports to ensure domestic food security .
Photo : Jonathan Wong
More
The incidents came to light as many Hongkongers thronged supermarkets to stock up on rice , amid worries that Vietnamese authorities might ban rice exports to ensure domestic food security .
Court documents showed both the defendants reported being holders of recognisance forms , which prohibited them from taking up any employment .
They also had no fixed abode in the city .
The pair stood next to each other in the dock but did not interact as their interpreters translated the English hearing to them in their respective languages .
They were jointly charged with one count of theft , alleging that they stole six packets of rice , valued at HK$455.4 ( US$ 58 ) , from Aeon Store in Whampoa Garden at about 6 pm on March 27 .
Hossain faces four additional counts of theft , for allegedly stealing another 10 packets of rice , four cans of milk powder , and a backpack on four other occasions .
Aeon Stores ( Hong Kong ) Company was said to have suffered a total loss of HK$2,296.8 from these thefts .
Sharma had no prior convictions before he pleaded guilty on Monday .
In mitigation , his defence lawyer revealed that he was a torture claimant living on subsidies from a non - government organisation , the International Social Service , since he arrived in the city from Nepal last year .
He called the theft an isolated incident and pleaded for a lenient sentence such as a fine .
People are panic buying protective gear and essential commodities amid the coronavirus pandemic in Hong Kong .
Photo : Sam Tsang
More
But Principal Magistrate Peter Law Tak - chuen observed that Sharma had been “ acting in concert ” with another party , which made his crime very serious even if he did not initiate the theft .
So the magistrate adopted a starting point of sentence at three months , before reducing it by one - third to credit the guilty plea .
Meanwhile , he gave Hossain six more weeks to consult legal advice and gather documents , and scheduled the case to return on May 11 .
But Hossain was expected to return to court on April 6 to renew his bail application , after Law rejected his first bid on Monday .
Theft carries a maximum sentence of 10 years upon conviction in Hong Kong .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Nepali asylum seeker gets two months in jail for stealing rice packets from Hong Kong store first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Donald Trump warns 100,000 Americans may die of coronavirus as he extends social-distancing .
2020-03-30 16:47:11 +00:00 .
US President Donald Trump abruptly abandoned his ambition to return American life to normal by Easter , heeding advice from the government ’s top doctors that re - opening the US economy in two weeks risks greater death as the coronavirus outbreak accelerates .
In a stark shift from two weeks of measured optimism , the president said his guidelines for Americans to practice “ social distancing ” would remain in place until at least April 30 , and he warned that 100,000 or more people may die .
He said in a Rose Garden news conference that he hoped the country would reach “ the bottom of the hill ” by June 1 - “ could even be sooner , could be a little bit later . ”
Mr Trump ’s about - face came after his top medical advisers - Anthony Fauci , the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , and Deborah Birx , the State Department immunologist advising Vice President Mike Pence - presented alarming new projections that millions of Americans may wind up infected .
Mr Fauci said earlier on CNN that as many as 200,000 Americans might die if efforts to mitigate the spread of the virus are n’t successful .
“ The number I gave out is , you know , based on modelling , ” Mr Fauci said at Sunday ’s news conference .
“ And I think it ’s entirely conceivable that if we do not mitigate to the extent that we ’re trying to do - that you could reach that number .
What we ’re trying to do is not let that happen . ”
Before Sunday , Mr Trump had publicly envisioned “ packed churches ” on Easter Sunday , April 12 , and both he and Mr Fauci had suggested parts of the country might return to business even as New York , Louisiana , Florida , Michigan and other states battle outbreaks .
Those aspirations appear to have evaporated .
“ Nothing would be worse than declaring victory before the victory is won , ” Mr Trump said on Sunday .
He said that instead of Americans returning to work , the administration now expects US deaths from coronavirus to peak at about Easter .
“ It should start coming down and hopefully very substantially from that point , ” he said .
There have been more than 142,000 cases of the disease in the US by Sunday and more than 2,400 Americans have died , according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University .

Coronavirus: Prince Charles out of self-isolation after testing positive for COVID-19 .
2020-03-30 12:37:30 +00:00 .
Prince Charles has ended his period of self - isolation after testing positive for coronavirus , Clarence House has said .
The prince , 71 , was confirmed to have tested positive for COVID-19 last Tuesday , when he took a test in Aberdeenshire .
He and his wife Camilla , 72 , had gone to Scotland on Sunday , 22 March , and as he experienced “ mild symptoms ” they were both tested for the virus .
He was confirmed to have it , but Camilla tested negative .
On Monday , Clarence House said : “ Clarence House has confirmed today that , having consulted with his doctor , the Prince of Wales is now out of self - isolation . ”
Read more :
Coronavirus : Prince Albert ' did n't shake ' Charles 's hand as royals fight COVID-19 Charles avoided shaking hands by using the namaste gesture .
( Getty Images )
More
The Duchess of Cornwall will continue to self - isolate , until she reaches the 14 day recommendation .
UK government guidelines say those who get symptoms of coronavirus , which include a fever , a new , dry cough , and loss of taste and smell in some instances , should self - isolate for seven days .
The guidance also states a whole household should isolate for 14 days if one person gets symptoms .
Charles was reported to have been working and in “ good spirits ” throughout his period of self - isolation , at his desk in Birkhall , on the Balmoral estate .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of COVID-19 cases in your local area 6 charts and maps that explain how COVID-19 is spreading
He had been with the Royal Family on 9 March for the Commonwealth Day service .
( Getty Images )
More
He was not bedridden , and conducted meetings by telephone , including one with former Labour leadership candidate David Miliband .
Read more : Coronavirus :
Officials defend Prince Charles 's test for COVID-19 Miliband is now president and chief executive of the International Rescue Committee ( IRC ) .
Charles is a patron of the IRC ’s UK arm .
He told Sky News last Thursday : “ I had a scheduled call with the Prince of Wales yesterday , obviously getting the news in the morning of his coronavirus situation made me wonder whether he would postpone but he went ahead with the call .
“ He was in very good spirits , he was obviously very engaged with the situation facing people in the UK . ”
Read more : Prince Charles offers tenants three - month rent deferral amid coronavirus pandemic
Officials in Scotland defended the decision to test the heir to the throne after criticism of his seemingly easy access to a test , when frontline NHS staff were not yet being routinely tested .
The Queen avoided shaking hands in her final public engagement .
( Getty Images )
More
The nation ’s chief medical officer said he was tested because he met the criteria , saying it was for “ clinical reasons ” .
Story continues
There have been concerns about the Queen ’s health , but she is reported to be unaffected , having not seen her son since 12 March .
His doctor estimated he was contagious around 13 March .
The Royal Family is following government guidance on coronavirus and has cancelled or postponed most engagements for the foreseeable future .
Trooping the Colour was the latest big royal event to be amended , with Buckingham Palace confirming on Friday that it would not go ahead in the traditional way , but plans were being made to mark the Queen ’s birthday .

Man took upskirt videos of medical staff administering eye test to him .
2020-03-30 11:27:06 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE — While at a cafe , a man took upskirt videos of a woman paying at a cashier .
Tham Kai Sheng , 31 , was arrested for the offence , but that did not deter the Malaysian .
While on bail , he went on to take upskirt videos of a female medical assistant as she administered an eye test to him .
Tham was given nine weeks ’ jail on Monday ( 30 March ) after he pleaded guilty to four out of nine counts of insulting the modesty of a woman , with the rest taken into consideration for sentencing .
On 7 August 2018 , Tham was doing some work at a cafe where he sat near the cashier .
The victim , a 32 - year - old woman , was seated at a separate table with a client .
When the woman walked to the cashier to order drinks , Tham placed his phone underneath her dress .
Before he left , he placed his phone under her dress again .
His actions were captured by the cafe ’s CCTV camera .
A staff of the cafe witnessed the action and asked a colleague to check the cafe ’s CCTV camera .
She made a police report about an hour later .
While under investigation , Tham admitted to taking a total of seven upskirt videos of as many women .
Five involved his friends and colleagues , while the remaining two were strangers .
He had saved the videos in his cloud storage application on his computer and taken screenshots of the videos .
He would delete the videos afterwards .
While released on bail , Tham reoffended last year .
On 12 July last year , at about 9.45am , Tham went to an eye specialist at a hospital for a medical appointment .
A 34 - year - old female assistant attended to him and conducted a visual field test on him as he sat on a chair .
The woman realised as she stood beside Tham that he had his mobile phone in camera mode and became suspicious .
After Tham returned from a consultation with a doctor , the same woman administered a corneal thickness test on him and put eye drops in both his eyes .
As she was doing so , Tham tried to move his phone towards her .
The woman then stepped away and asked her colleague , an administrative assistant , to watch what was happening in the room .
The woman continued with the test while her colleague watched .
As the woman retrieved a medical instrument , her colleague saw Tham placing his phone under the woman ’s skirt .
The colleague confronted Tham , who quickly deleted the incriminating photos .
Deputy Public Prosecutor Bjorn Tan sought nine weeks ’ jail for Tham , pointing out that Tham had reoffended while on bail .
Tham ’s lawyer Sara Ng told the court that her client had sought psychiatric treatment and has been attending monthly sessions .
“ ( My client is ) simply asking for leniency because of the fact that client has done well so far .
At the time of offences he was pursing a Master ’s Degree in NUS ( National University of Singapore ) and ( it was the ) period of stress that pushed him to commit these offences , ” said Ng , who called for no more than six weeks ’ jail .
A report from the Institute of Mental Health noted that Tham displayed voyeuristic interest that was a form of sexual deviancy but it did not impair his self control , according to DPP Tan .
Tham had reoffended two months after the report was produced in May last year .
For insulting the modesty of a woman , Tham could have been jailed up to a year , fined , or both , on each count .
Stay in the know on - the - go : Join Yahoo Singapore 's Telegram channel at http://t.me/YahooSingapore
More Singapore stories JC student who regularly visited NUS campus to look at women given probation for peeping offence PM Lee makes police report over fake e - mail on COVID-19 that uses his name Man who punched elderly e - scooter rider , blinded victim in one eye ,
jailed

US Cash in Circulation Sees Biggest Increase Since the Y2K Bug Panic, Fed Reserve Data Indicates .
2020-03-30 11:10:18 +00:00 .
U.S. currency in circulation has experienced its largest increase in over 20 years , according to data from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis .
From March 11 to March 18 , dollar banknotes in circulation shot up from around 1.809 trillion to 1.843 trillion , an increase of almost 35 billion , a chart shows .
The strong signal suggests that U.S. citizens are now withdrawing far more cash than usual from banks and ATMs amid concerns over the effects of the coronavirus pandemic .
The surge is the biggest since late 1999 , when fear of a global digital systems crash caused by a rumored glitch in numerical dates – the so - called “ Y2 K bug ” – sparked a frenzy of withdrawals and panic buying .
Related : After Coronavirus ‘ War , ’ Bretton Woods - Style Shakeup Could Dethrone the Dollar
Back then , U.S. currency in circulation rose from $ 588.6 billion on Dec. 15 , 1999 , to $ 610.9 billion by Dec. 22 .
That ’s an increase of 22.3 billion , far less than seen from March 11 - 18 .
Over the weeks from Nov. 3 , 1999 , however , the Y2 K spike saw a total increase of over 55 billion .
On a weekly basis , the March 11 - 18 rise looks to be possibly the biggest since at least 1975 – the earliest date shown in the Fed data .
The news was tweeted by monetary economist John Paul Koning with a chart illustrating the St. Louis Fed ’s data .
Currency in circulation includes paper currency and coin held both by the public and in the vaults of depository institutions .
Related : Bitcoin and Gold : Evaluating Hard - Cap Currencies in Times of Financial Crisis
The increase comes as the global outbreak of the deadly coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) continues to worsen in many nations , and with health authorities advising social distancing measures and minimal contact with surfaces that might be contaminated with the virus .
The pandemic has brought new attention to the fact that physical money represents the “ dirtiest ” form of currency exchange between two parties , driving the narrative further for blockchain - based digital value transfer .
Also read : Riot Blockchain Says Coronavirus Outbreak Might Hurt Crypto Mining Farms
Related Stories

COVID-19: More than 500 job openings for sports workers affected by pandemic .
2020-03-30 11:04:33 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE — Singapore ’s sports governing body Sport Singapore ( SportSG ) on Monday ( 30 March ) unveiled plans to support those in the sports industry whose livelihoods have been badly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic .
It has created more than 500 temporary job openings for sports workers , as well as more than 5,000 training vacancies from now until end-2020 .
These jobs are geared towards enabling continuing operations and industry development .
They include visitor engagement and implementation of COVID-19 measures at ActiveSG centres ; virtual fitness content creators and media producers ; as well as sports curriculum developers , coaches and active health ambassadors .
SportSG ’s training arms ActiveSG Training Centre and CoachSG are offering courses with SkillsFuture funding .
These courses cover a range of topics from digital marketing to service excellence , as well as specialised subjects such as sports science .
SportSG is working with institutes of higher learning to enhance course delivery and increase training capacity .
Creating a digital “ super sports club ”
Besides helping sports workers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic , SportSG is also rethinking its industry ecosystem to better engage the Singapore public in sports activities in the current climate .
With many Singaporeans continuing to stay fit and healthy by exercising outdoors even amid the COVID-19 situation , SportSG is planning to create an online “ super sports club ” platform , where the public can access workout videos , virtual races and facilities reservations .
This digital platform is still in its early stages of content creation , but SportSG hopes it will eventually allow sports coaches and fitness trainers provide different tiers of sports services to the public .
“ The ActiveSG Circle concept opens up more options for Singaporeans to participate in sport in ways they prefer , ” SportSG chief executive officer Lim Teck
Yin said during a virtual media conference on Monday .
“ New technology will be deployed , and new capabilities will be built as we move to bridge physical and virtual sporting experiences . ”
Partnering enterprises for GetActive !
Singapore
As for sports companies and enterprises , SportSG will partner them to design and organise its annual GetActive !
Singapore event together .
Grants and subsidies will be given to partners who can come up with creative ideas for GetActive !
Singapore activities .
Examples of ideas include virtual run or cycling competitions , and exercises that are distribute across Singapore but linked up to form a single mass participation event .
Lim believes that the disruption caused by COVID-19 to the sports industry can be an opportunity to upskill and invest in capabilities – for workers , for sports enterprises and even for SportSG itself .
“ This current situation presents an opportunity to strengthen and transform Sporting Singapore ...
A transformed industry with capacity and capabilities needed for long - term growth in participation and performance will serve Singapore better , ” he said .
Stay in the know on - the - go : Join Yahoo Singapore 's Telegram channel at http://t.me/YahooSingapore
More Singapore stories : PM Lee makes police report over fake e - mail on COVID-19 that uses his name High Court dismisses 3 constitutional challenges to Section 377A
CPF Bishan branch closed for cleaning following confirmed COVID-19 case WEEKLY ROUND - UP :
Sports happenings in Singapore ( 23 - 29 March )

Trump brags about his television ratings as pandemic intensifies .
2020-03-30 08:28:14 +00:00 .
President Trump may be dealing with the novel coronavirus pandemic , but he apparently still has time to boast about one of his favorite topics : television ratings .
Trump went on a bit of a tweetstorm Sunday afternoon , citing a four - day - old report from The New York Times that highlighted the number of viewers tuning into his revived daily White House briefings .
The president earlier tweeted that the " lamestream media , " as he refers to many news sources , wants him to fail , and suggested he was driving them " crazy " with the high ratings that matched programs like The Bachelor and Monday Night Football .
...
On Monday , nearly 12.2 million people watched Mr. Trump ’s briefing on CNN , Fox News and MSNBC , according to Nielsen — ‘ Monday Night Football ’ numbers .
Millions more are watching on ABC , CBS , NBC and online streaming sites , and the audience is expanding .
On Monday , Fox News ...
— Donald J. Trump ( @realDonaldTrump ) March 29 , 2020 ...
The CBS News poll said 13 percent of Republicans trusted the news media for information about the virus . ”
Michael M. Grynbaum @NYTimes — Donald J. Trump ( @realDonaldTrump ) March 29 , 2020
Unsurprisingly , Trump 's tweets have already drawn criticism about the direction of his focus during the crisis .
Dr. Fauci told me today that the coronavirus could kill anywhere from 100,000 to 200,000 Americans , and infect millions more .
Americans .
The president is tweeting about TV ratings for press conferences .
https://t.co/bxGaBsOww9
— Jake Tapper ( @jaketapper ) March 29 , 2020
More stories from theweek.com
Once coronavirus infects a human body , what happens next ?
Joe Biden is the worst imaginable challenger to Trump right now
Florida appears to be the only state getting all its federal coronavirus equipment requests
met

Linda Lusardi discharged from hospital after coronavirus battle .
2020-03-30 08:23:53 +00:00 .
Dancing On Ice star Linda Lusardi has returned home after a stay in hospital with Covid-19 , her husband Sam Kane has said .
Lusardi , 61 , and Kane , 51 , were admitted to hospital with the disease around March 19 and while Kane was discharged a few days later , Lusardi ’s condition was considerably worse .
However , Kane tweeted on Sunday night that Lusardi had recovered sufficiently to be sent home .
He wrote : “ So blessed to be spending tonight with my beautiful girl at home by my side .
God bless the NHS .
So happy to have her home . ”
Kane provided updates on her status to worried fans , revealing she was breathing with the help of oxygen equipment , while Lusardi herself tweeted she had “ never felt this ill . ”
Lusardi and Kane have urged fans to follow the advice of experts on self - isolation because she has coronavirus symptoms .
The former glamour model tweeted after being admitted to hospital : “ I would n’t wish this on anyone .
So stay safe everyone and follow the advice of the experts – please take care of yourselves , loved ones and each other . ”
Lusardi , whose TV appearances include Emmerdale , Dancing On Ice and Loose Women , found fame in the 1970s and ’ 80s , and in a 2005 poll was voted the UK ’s most popular Page 3 girl ever .
A number of famous faces have contracted coronavirus , including Idris Elba and his wife Sabrina .
Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson also tested positive for the virus and were hospitalised in Australia before being discharged a week later .
Additional reporting by Press Association

Some cruise ship crew members stuck on board because of coronavirus aren't getting paid .
2020-03-30 08:21:32 +00:00 .
Several crew members who recently left the Norwegian Encore cruise ship told the Miami Herald they are worried about their colleagues still on board , as many are possibly suffering from the COVID-19 coronavirus .
Thousands of cruise line employees — including many whose contracts have expired — remain on their ships , despite all U.S. sailings being canceled until mid - April because of the coronavirus pandemic .
Many are from foreign countries , and the cruise lines say they ca n't leave because their flights keep getting canceled .
In the case of the Encore , the last passengers got off in Miami on March 15 .
Crew members told the Herald the captain said there were no confirmed cases of COVID-19 , but then they started noticing more dining carts in the hallways , indicating food was being sent to people in isolation .
" They kept saying no one had symptoms , everyone is fine , you 're in the best place you can be , " one crew member said .
" We knew that was n't true because we saw all the carts . "
Crew members who were able to finally leave the Encore on March 23 told the Herald that upon disembarkation , no one at the port took their temperature or asked if they had any COVID-19 symptoms .
One person has since tested positive , and several have symptoms .
These crew members believe dozens of the roughly 1,000 people still on the Encore are sick .
Some are also no longer being paid — the Herald reports that a letter was distributed to employees on Wednesday from a Norwegian human relations executive stating that all workers would have access to food , medical services , Wi - Fi , and laundry , but those whose contracts have expired will not receive any financial compensation , even if they ca n't leave because of travel restrictions .
" I 'm worried about the people still on board , " one crew member told the Herald .
" I 'm worried we 've been lied to this whole time by management .
It is reckless behavior on their part , in my opinion , and endangering . "
More stories from theweek.com
Once coronavirus infects a human body , what happens next ?
Joe Biden is the worst imaginable challenger to Trump right now
Florida appears to be the only state getting all its federal coronavirus equipment requests
met

Trump says US ‘will not pay for security protection’ for Prince Harry and Meghan after move to California .
2020-03-30 04:06:32 +00:00 .
President Donald Trump says the US will not pay for the security of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex after the couple decided to move from Canada to California .
" I am a great friend and admirer of the Queen the United Kingdom .
It was reported that Harry and Meghan , who left the Kingdom , would reside permanently in Canada .
Now they have left Canada for the US however , the US will not pay for their security protection .
They must pay , " Mr Trump wrote in a tweet on Sunday .
According to reports , the royal couple recently left Vancouver Island for Los Angeles , where Meghan grew up .
The US and UK have a longstanding agreement between the two countries to provide security protection to diplomats and members of the Royal Family when visiting the country .
But sources said Harry might lose this benefit after he and his wife decided to step down as senior royals , making them no longer “ international protected persons ” .
The president did not say if Harry or the British government asked for protection to be extended to the family after they decided to move to Los Angeles .
The Independent contacted the Royal Family for a comment .
Later on Sunday , the couple issued a statement saying they had “ no plans ” to ask the US for pay for their security and that “ privately - funded arrangements ” have already been made .
The couple announced earlier this year they would be moving away from the UK and stepping away from their royal duties , an announcement that sent shockwaves through the Royal Family .
Initially Harry and Meghan planned to settle down in Canada with their 10 - month - old son , Archie .
Canada reportedly paid for the their security starting in November , but officials said they would stop paying for the protection after March once their royal duties ended .
“ The Duke and Duchess of Sussex choosing to relocate to Canada on a part - time basis presented our government with a unique and unprecedented set of circumstances , ” Canada ’s public safety minister Bill Blair ’s office wrote in a statement , according to CBC .
“ The RCMP has been engaged with officials in the UK from the very beginning regarding security considerations .
“ As the Duke and Duchess are currently recognised as internationally protected persons , Canada has an obligation to provide security assistance on an as - needed basis .
At the request of the Metropolitan Police , the RCMP has been providing assistance to the Met since the arrival of the Duke and Duchess to Canada intermittently since November 2019 .
The assistance will cease in the coming weeks , in keeping with their change in status . ”
Prime minister Justin Trudeau previously said “ discussions were ongoing ” with the UK about how security protection would be paid for while the family was in Canada .
The US and Canada agreed earlier this month to close their borders to non - essential travel amid the coronavirus pandemic around the same time Harry and Meghan charted a private plane from Canada to California , The Sun reported last week .
Harry and Meghan attended their last event under their titles earlier this month at the annual Commonwealth Service at Westminster Abbey before their royal status ends on 31 March .
Read more
Cuomo extends New York ’s quarantine as coronavirus cases rise
Trump boasts his coronavirus briefings are a ‘ ratings hit ’ UK could stay in partial coronavirus lockdown ‘ for six months ’ UK ’s first ‘ front line ’ doctor dies after contracting coronavirus

RBI Bazooka Has Bond Market Wanting More as Fiscal Stress Looms .
2020-03-30 01:56:31 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The Reserve Bank of India delivered an emergency rate cut and pledged $ 50 billion of liquidity infusion on Friday .
Now traders want it to join other central banks in unleashing a massive - bond buying program .
Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc are among those who see the RBI taking the next step of buying debt from the market , or the government , a measure the central bank last resorted to in the early 2000s .
Investors are counting on RBI support as fears grow that the government will add to its record borrowings to help fund a 1.7 - trillion rupee ( $ 22.6 billion ) package countering the coronavirus pandemic .
More spending may be needed , Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman indicated when she announced the stimulus on Thursday .
“ An important dimension that remains is for a very large open - market operation for a bond - buying program , ” according to Suyash Choudhary , head of fixed income at
IDFC Asset Management Co.
“ The format globally now is evolving around monetary expansion supporting fiscal policy and India needs to do the same . ”
Bond markets risk seeing a spike in yields in the absence of such support from the RBI , said Choudhary , who predicts that India will further ramp up its fiscal stimulus in the months to come .
That ’s because a three - week nationwide lockdown is set to inflict more damage on an already - slowing economy .
READ :
India Headed for Rare Quarterly Contraction on Lockdown
India ’s sovereign curve bull steepened as traders cheered the RBI ’s sweeping measures on Friday , but a chunk of the initial gains vanished by the close of trading .
The benchmark 10 - year yield finished 8 basis points lower after having tumbled by as much as 24 basis points to 5.98 % , the lowest since 2009 .
Yields have fallen from this year ’s high as the RBI conducted open - market bond purchases and also injected cheap rupee liquidity .
Even so , calls for it to do more are growing as investors await the details of the government ’s borrowing plan for the first half of the next fiscal year , which are set to be announced by Monday .
The administration had in February said it plans to borrow an unprecedented 7.8 trillion rupees during the year .
“ The central bank will have little choice but to conduct large scale OMO purchases through FY21 and probably even purchase government bonds in the primary market , ” Kaushik Das , chief India economist at Deutsche Bank , wrote in a note .
Below are the key Asian data and events due this week : Monday , March 30 : Singapore central bank policy decisionTuesday , March 31 : China PMI ;
Australia private credit ; New Zealand building permits and business confidence ; South Korea business surveys , industrial production ; Japan jobless rate , retail sales and industrial production , Thailand tradeWednesday , April 1 : N.Z. house prices ; Australia building approvals and RBA minutes ; Japan Tankan survey , South Korean trade , Indonesia CPI , Manufacturing PMIs across AsiaThursday , April 2 : Japan monetary base , South Korea CPI , India PMIFriday , April 3 : China Caixin services PMI ;
Australia retail sales ; Japan Jibun Bank services PMI ; Singapore retail sales and PMI ; South Korea and Thailand forex reserves ; Philippines budget balance
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Stocks poised to extend losses Monday as coronavirus deaths could reach 200,000 .
2020-03-29 23:30:58 +00:00 .
Stocks were poised to extend losses Monday as the coronavirus pandemic deepened over the weekend , with the U.S. death total escalating .
On Sunday evening , futures for the Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 400 points , signaling another volatile week on Wall Street after it tumbled more than 900 points on Friday .
Standard Poor ’s 500 futures lost 2 % .
President Donald Trump late Sunday extended the national social distancing guidelines to April 30 as U.S. fatalities from the pandemic climbed above 2,300 .
The announcement comes after Trump said last week he hoped to open up the country by Easter .
Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , projected between 100,000 and 200,000 people could die from the virus .
The stock market has shed more than 20 % since touching records just over a month ago .
Despite Friday 's losses , the Dow still notched its biggest weekly gain since 1938 , helped by promises from Congress and the Federal Reserve to provide aid for the economy and markets .
But analysts caution that the recent rally could fade until there ’s a long - term solution to fight coronavirus infections .
“ Volatility will likely persist , ” says Rusty Vanneman , chief investment officer at Orion Advisor Solutions .
“ It ’s a race against the clock right now .
Hopefully , we can get some positive data on the infection rates peaking in the next few weeks . ”
What we know : How the $ 2 T coronavirus stimulus will affect you and the economy
Contact your mortgage lender : Payments may be deferred as coronavirus pandemic causes worker hardships
Trader Vincent Napolitano works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange , Monday , March 2 , 2020 .
More
Investors are looking for the number of infections to slow before markets can find a bottom , analysts say .
Last week , the U.S. topped China as the global leader in virus cases .
“ Investors want to see the curve of virus cases flatten , ” says Michael Lackwood , founding principal of New York - based Spring Delta Asset Management .
“ That ’s what will inspire people and get businesses back to work , which will help the economy restart again . ”
More than 710,000 people are known to have been infected with the virus globally , and more than 33,000 have died .
The U.S. counted more than 136,000 cases of coronavirus by Sunday afternoon , the world 's highest total , and there were nearly 2,400 deaths , according to the Johns Hopkins University data dashboard .
More confirmations are expected as the U.S. continues to ramp up testing for the virus .
On Friday , Trump signed an unprecedented $ 2.2 trillion economic rescue package into law to support companies and help struggling families .
Looking ahead , investors will monitor jobs and manufacturing data this week for further signs on how the pandemic has affected the U.S. economy .
The March jobs report is set to be released Friday .
The Institute for Supply Management , meanwhile , will release its March manufacturing survey on Wednesday , which could provide clues into how supply chain disruptions have impacted factory activity .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Dow : Stock futures set to extend losses as coronavirus deaths climb

White House extends social distancing guidelines to April 30 .
2020-03-29 23:00:39 +00:00 .
Only a few days after saying that he would like to see the country " opened up and raring to go by Easter " and maybe relax rules for at least some parts of the U.S. sooner than later , President Trump today announced that he is extending the government 's social distancing guidelines through April 30 .
" Nothing would be worse than declaring victory before the victory is won .
That would be the greatest loss of all , " he said .
" Therefore , the next two weeks and during this period it 's very important that everyone strongly follows the guidelines -- have to follow the guidelines that our great vice president holds up a lot .
He 's holding that up a lot .
He believes in it so strongly .
The better you do , the faster this whole nightmare will end .
Therefore , we will be extending our guidelines to April 30 to slow the spread . "
He also noted that we can expect more data and information about the federal government 's strategy on Tuesday .
" We 'll be having a very important statement made on Tuesday . "
Earlier today , Dr. Anthony Fauci , the director for the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , said that we should expect between 100,000 and 200,000 deaths from COVID-19 .
" The reason the president made the announcement today about going to the end of April , is because we want to make sure that we do n't prematurely think we 're doing so great .
We may be , but we want to push it to the extreme , " Fauci , who called the decision " wise and prudent , " said in today 's press conference .
And while Trump has said that he wants to open up the country as fast as possible and get the economy back on track , it now looks that -- at least for the time being -- that timeline has been pushed back as he listened to Fauci and task force head Deborah Birx 's advice .
The new date he mentioned today is June 1st .
" We can expect that by June 1st we will be well on our way to recovery , " he said today .
" We think by June 1st a lot of great things will be happening .
I want every citizen in our country to take heart and confidence in the fact that we have the best medical minds in the world tackling this disease . "
Currently , Trump said , death rates are expected to peak in two weeks .
The original " 15 days to slow the spread " campaign launched just under two weeks ago , on March 15 .
Fauci : US can expect more than 100,000 COVID-19 deaths , millions of cases

Boy, 14, charged with spitting at woman during UK coronavirus crisis .
2020-03-29 16:50:16 +00:00 .
A 14 - year - old boy has become the youngest suspect to be charged with deliberately spitting or coughing at someone as the coronavirus sweeps Britain .
The youth allegedly coughed on and spat at a 66 - year - old woman while shouting " coronavirus " during the incident in Ashton - under - Lyne , Greater Manchester , on Tuesday evening .
Because of his age he can not be identified and will appear in court next week charged with one count of assault .
Police have described incidents , including some targeting police , ambulance and other medical staff , as " deplorable " and warned that offenders or their parents will be pursued .
After numerous reports from around the country that emergency workers and vulnerable people were being coughed at by people claiming to have the virus , the Crown Prosecution Service ( CPS ) warned those responsible will face serious criminal charges .
Cheshire Police have vowed to find and prosecute a group of teenagers , claiming to have the virus , who deliberately coughed at NHS staff in Warrington .
In a Facebook post , Sergeant Lee Hillyard , of Cheshire Police , said : " This is an absolutely abhorrent incident involving abuse of our NHS heroes . "
On Saturday , a man accused of spitting blood in the face of police officers was remanded in custody .
Samuel Konneh , 38 , appeared at Manchester and Salford Magistrates ' Court where he was refused bail by District Judge John Temperley .
Konneh is accused of four counts of attempted grievous bodily harm with intent relating to the spitting at the officers who were responding to reports of a woman being assaulted in Withington , south Manchester , on Thursday .
Konneh , of Easthorpe Close , Withington , was remanded into custody to appear at Manchester Crown Court on April 24 .
Greater Manchester Police have also charged another man with coughing at an officer while claiming to have coronavirus .
Mateusz Rejewski , 33 , has been charged with one count of common assault on an emergency service worker and one count of breaching a dispersal notice during an incident in Piccadilly Gardens , central Manchester , on Thursday .
The officer has since been self - isolating as a precaution .
Rejewski is in custody and is due to appear at Manchester Magistrates ' Court on April 28 .
Chief Superintendent Rob O'Connor , of Cumbria Police , said : " It is deplorable at any time that people think it is acceptable to assault an emergency worker , whether they be a police officer , paramedic , nurse , firefighter or other emergency worker who is a public servant .
" Sadly we have seen examples in the last couple of weeks of police officers being spat at / coughed at and people have also in some cases falsely claimed to have coronavirus which has then caused undue worry and stress for our officers .
" Now is the time when we need our emergency services more than ever to help tackle this national emergency and we are not helped by people acting in such an irresponsible manner .
" We will be taking a zero tolerance approach to acts such as these and ask people to think before they act " .
Read more ' Despicable ' man who spat at officers and claimed to have virus jailed ' No gaps in Government ' despite PM isolating , minister says- LIVE
US President Donald Trump weighing quarantine on New York Hearn vows to reward NHS staff with free tickets to major fight nights
NHS ramping up intensive care capacity as Covid-19 deaths soar
NHS nurses told hide uniform in public after ' virus spreaders ' calls

GameStop reportedly told employees to wrap their hands in plastic bags while they continued working during the coronavirus outbreak .
2020-03-29 14:56:51 +00:00 .
Ben Gilbert / Business Insider
Across America , non - essential services and businesses are temporarily shuttered as people stay home to prevent the spread of COVID-19 .
Embattled retailer GameStop , the world 's largest video game retail chain , argued it was " essential " and stayed open until March 21 .
While the company is still operating a " delivery at door " service for in - store pickup , employees told the Boston Globe that they 're not being given proper safety equipment to operate during a pandemic .
In a memo from GameStop 's corporate office , employees are instructed to " tape a GameStop plastic bag over your hand and arm " while handling customer credit cards .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
While the coronavirus outbreak caused all " non - essential " businesses and services to pause indefinitely , GameStop , the world 's biggest video game retailer , kept its stores operating far longer than most and even argued its business operations were " essential " because they " enable and enhance our customers ' experience in working from home . "
The company only walked back standard operations on March 22 , and introduced a " delivery at door " service where customers can order products online for pickup at the door .
Employees still working during the ongoing pandemic say that proper safety measures are n't being taken to ensure they do n't get sick .
According to a memo sent to GameStop managers and reported by the Boston Globe , employees were reportedly told to cover their hands am arms with plastic bags when interacting with customers .
" Lightly ( you want to be able to get it off easily ) tape a Game Stop plastic bag over your hand and arm , " the memo read .
" Do not open the door all the way — keep the glass between you and the guest 's face — just reach out your arm . "
A Brooklyn - area GameStop store in September 2019 .
More Ben Gilbert / Business Insider COVID-19 is spread primarily through respiratory droplets released when an infected person coughs or sneezes , according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
Beyond disinfecting surfaces and washing your hands , the number one way to prevent catching or spreading coronavirus is through so - called " social distancing " — staying away from other people so you ca n't breathe in their potentially infected droplets .
A GameStop manager who spoke with the Boston Globe highlighted the discrepancy between those guidelines and what he 's being asked to do by his employer .
" I have to make a choice between doing a job that nobody needs during a pandemic and not being paid , and possibly infecting people or being infected , " he said .
Across the last year , the company 's stock value dropped by two - thirds — from about $ 15 in January 2019 to under $ 5 by January 2020 — and it reshuffled its C - suite .
Like Blockbuster Video and Tower Records before it , GameStop faces major challenges to its business model from the internet .
As more people buy video games through digital storefronts , fewer buy games on physical discs from GameStop , leaving the company struggling to modernize its business .
GameStop representatives did n't respond to a request for comment as of publishing .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Coronavirus: China limits access to cemeteries for Ching Ming tomb-sweeping festival .
2020-03-29 11:58:53 +00:00 .
Chinese authorities are strictly limiting access to cemeteries amid concerns over the spread of the coronavirus , as the country enters the two - week period around the Ching Ming Festival on April 4 , when people traditionally visit the graves of their ancestors .
In light of the coronavirus outbreak , local governments have been urging the public for weeks to make reservations online to visit cemeteries , or to try virtual tomb - sweeping instead .
Saturday was the first day of the reserved visits in Shanghai , with the city ’s 54 cemeteries providing 105,000 slots for on - site tomb - sweeping .
Some 79,200 people made reservations for Saturday , with 78,600 actually attending , according to local news portal Thepaper.cn .
A total of 685,000 people have made reservations in Shanghai for the tomb - sweeping period between March 28 and April 12 .
In the capital city of Beijing , traffic restrictions on access roads were put in place in addition to requiring reservations to visit local cemeteries .
The Beijing News reported that a few roads around the Babaoshan Cemetery were blocked , and one gate to the graveyard was closed , so that cars could only enter and exit through a single route to avoid congestion .
Tables were set up outside the subway station close to the Babaoshan Cemetery offering disinfectant , alcohol wipes and a waste bin for face masks .
Visitors also had to show identification as well as have their temperature taken before entering the cemetery .
The restrictions kept many people away , with The Beijing News reporting that visits to cemeteries in Beijing ’s Fengtai district were down 93 per cent compared with last year .
A staff member offers chrysanthemums on behalf of relatives at a grave in the Babaoshan Cemetery in Beijing .
Photo : Xinhua
More
Many chose to pay their respects in a less traditional way .
About 578 families in Beijing made reservations online with the Babaoshan Cemetery , which provided three teams of staff to help them pay their respects to their ancestors .
The staff members wore full - body protective gear while cleaning and sweeping the tombs and placing chrysanthemum bouquets on them .
In the southern province of Guangdong , the government temporarily suspended visits for on - site tomb - sweeping .
Instead , multiple cemeteries are offering online services .
On the official website of the Guangzhou Yinhe Martyrs ’ Cemetery , when a user clicks on “ offerings ” , fruit , brown sugar buns , roast pig and duck appear in front of a tomb image on the page .
The user can also choose to light candles , burn incense , decorate the tomb with flowers , as well as place cups of the fiery liquor baijiu in front of it .
They can also write their ancestor ’s name on the tomb image and leave messages they want to send them .
On a Guangdong government WeChat app , users can also register their ancestor ’s name , dates of birth and death and create a personalised page with photos , flowers and messages .
They can choose to save that page or share it with their friends .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : China limits access to cemeteries for Ching Ming tomb - sweeping festival first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Coronavirus: new social-distancing law may be repealed only after it becomes a ‘habit’ among Hongkongers, health minister says .
2020-03-29 11:58:53 +00:00 .
Hong Kong ’s health minister has said that new regulations on social distancing may be repealed only after they become a “ habit ” , as she warned of further restrictions , such as on karaoke bars and mahjong parlours .
No prosecution or penalty notice had been made as of Sunday noon , Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan Siu - chee said , as she reiterated her call for citizens to exercise self - restraint and avoid public gatherings , adding that authorities were counting on compliance rather than enforcement .
Her remarks came as a new ban on groups of more than four people in public kicked in on Sunday .
It will last a fortnight until April 11 , while another rule on halving the capacity of restaurants and closing six types of leisure premises took effect at 6 pm on Saturday , also for 14 days .
The public venues affected include cinemas , party rooms and gyms .
Hong Kong health minister Sophia Chan .
Photo : Edmond
So
More
Critics have argued that the government has not made clear what is meant by “ public gatherings ” .
Chan was non - committal on whether the current ban on social gatherings would be extended after April 11 .
If law enforcement is counted on for everything , then this may not achieve our objective
Sophia Chan , secretary for food and health
“ We will continue to monitor the situation ...
We hope to see the number of new cases drop , ” she said .
“ If social distancing can become a habit , then the regulation can be revisited .
“ For the coming two weeks , please avoid gatherings where possible and exercise self - restraint .
For those under home quarantine , please stay at home , ” Chan said on a television programme .
“ If law enforcement is counted on for everything , then this may not achieve our objective . ”
While karaoke bars and mahjong parlours are not covered under the initial ban , Chan said she would not rule out further restrictions .
“ If the public feels there is a high risk there , law enforcement officers will conduct more inspections , and we will not preclude further exercise of legal powers , ” she said .
A lone figure at IFC mall in Central .
Photo : Robert Ng
More
For now , karaoke outlets serving food and drinks will also have to comply with restrictions on restaurants : tables have to be kept at least 1.5 metres apart .
In the past two weeks , the number of Covid-19 infections in Hong Kong tripled to more than 580 as of Sunday morning .
While most cases are from overseas returnees or their close contacts , Chan stressed that any form of social gathering would increase the risk of infection .
The law defines “ public places ” as areas where “ the public or a section of the public may or are permitted to have access from time to time , whether by payment or otherwise ” .
This would cover most shopping malls and shops , as well as churches .
Complications also arise over past judgments by Hong Kong courts that defined common corridors in commercial buildings as “ public places ” .
Violation of the new rules carries a fixed penalty of HK$2,000 , or in the case of a formal prosecution , a higher fine of HK$25,000 ( HK$3,225 ) or six months in jail .
Chan on Sunday reassured people that private places were not covered under the law , but appealed to the public to be vigilant even though law enforcement agents might not inspect all gathered groups .
This article Coronavirus : new social - distancing law may be repealed only after it becomes a ‘ habit ’ among Hongkongers , health minister says first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe prison leave extended as coronavirus outbreak continues .
2020-03-29 10:36:26 +00:00 .
Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe has had her temporary leave from prison in Iran extended by two weeks , her husband has revealed .
The British - Iranian mother was among about 85,000 prisoners released from Evin prison in Tehran on 17 March as part of efforts to stop the rapid spread of coronavirus .
Richard Ratcliffe said his wife ’s father had been told her two - week furlough had been extended until 18 April .
Her file has also been put forward to the Iranian Prosecutor General to be considered for clemency , he added .
Ms Zaghari - Ratcliffe was arrested at Tehran ’s Imam Khomeini airport in April 2016 while travelling to show her young daughter , Gabriella , to her parents .
The aid worker , from Hampstead , in north London , was sentenced to five years in prison over allegations , which she denies , of plotting to overthrow the Tehran government .
Ms Zaghari - Ratcliffe was later given diplomatic protection by the UK government , which argues that she is innocent and that her treatment by Iran failed to meet obligations under international law .
She has been living at her parents ’ house in Tehran since her temporary release but must wear an ankle tag and must stay within 300 metres of the property .
Former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt welcomed the latest development in her case as a “ glimmer of hope amidst the darkness ” .
“ Let ’s pray that this remarkable family are reunited soon , ” he wrote on Twitter .
The family ’s MP Tulip Siddiq tweeted that every day Mrs Zaghari - Ratcliffe is out of prison is “ better than the alternative ” .
But she said that the main focus remained “ getting her home and away from the danger of coronavirus in Iran as soon as possible ” .
Iran is among the countries worst - affected by Covid-19 – reporting over 29,000 confirmed cases and more than 2,200 deaths from the disease .
Additional reporting by Press Association .
Read more
How to help the elderly and vulnerable during the coronavirus
How to feel less anxious about the coronavirus
How to be productive when working from home during coronavirus
Which countries around the world has coronavirus spread to ?
The dirty truth about washing your hands

UK Coronavirus Lockdown Has No 'Fixed' Length, Warns Michael Gove .
2020-03-29 09:31:58 +00:00 .
Updated : See the latest stories on the coronavirus outbreak .
The length of the coronavirus lockdown depends on how stringently the public stick to the rules , Cabinet minister Michael Gove has said , as he declined to give a timeframe for the strict measures being lifted .
The Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster warned on Sunday that ministers would not hesitate to enforce tougher rules if needed .
After the death toll in the UK passed 1,000 , Gove declined to be drawn on how long the tough measures restricting people ’s lives would be in place , and what stricter rules could look like “ There are different projections as to how long the lockdown might last , ” he told Sky News ’ Sophy Ridge on Sunday .
Professor Neil Ferguson , one of the key experts advising the government on the spread of the virus , told The Sunday Times the lockdown would likely have to remain in place until June .
Asked about Ferguson ’s prediction , Gove said : “ It ’s not the case that the length of the lockdown is something that is absolutely fixed .
“ It depends on all of our behaviour .
If we follow the guidelines , we can deal more effectively with the spread of the disease . ”
In a separate interview on the BBC ’s Andrew Marr Show , Gove said he could not make an “ accurate prediction ” about how long the lockdown would last .
But he said people had to be prepared for a “ significant period where these measures are still in place ” .
Gove insisted “ it is important ” that “ we do n’t pre - empt discussion of what other steps may be required ” when pressed on what further measures could be introduced .
But he said the public so far appear to be heeding the advice .
“ At the moment , all the evidence is that people are observing the rules , if you look at the number of people on public transport that has fallen , if you look at footfall in supermarkets and other stores , that has fallen as well , ” he said .
“ We keep things under review in order to ensure that if there are further steps they can be implemented . ”
With Boris Johnson working in isolation in his Downing Street flat after testing positive for the disease , Gove insisted the prime minister remained “ very firmly in charge ” .
He said the PM would hold another meeting by video conference on Sunday , and confirmed that foreign secretary Dominic Raab is the “ designated deputy ” if his condition worsened and he could no longer govern .
Johnson today wrote to households to warn them “ things will get worse before they get better ” .
The UK has hit its initially 10,000 - a - day testing target , Gove said , but he refused to give a timeline for when all NHS and social care workers will be tested , despite increasing demands .
Instead , he said that it is hoped to “ be able to test as many frontline workers at the earliest possible stage ” .
Practising medic and Labour MP Dr Rosena Allin - Khan said she was “ really disappointed ” that NHS staff and care workers were not currently being tested for the disease .
“ These are the people who are at the frontline , these are people who need to know whether or not they have the virus or not , ” the deputy leadership candidate told Sky .
“ It is absolutely urgent that NHS and care staff are tested and they have access to testing immediately , ” she said .
“ I ’m not sure it ’s entirely fair that senior politicians are having access to testing when frontline NHS staff , who are going in to work night shifts , day shifts , double shifts at the moment , ca n’t get the tests that they need . ”
Related ...
Five Things You Need To Know About Coronavirus
Today
Love HuffPost ?
Become a founding member of HuffPost Plus today .
This article originally appeared on HuffPost .

Kuwait Leads Drop in Mideast Stocks After Downgrade: Inside EM .
2020-03-29 09:01:58 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Most Middle Eastern stock markets fell on Sunday , with Kuwait ’s main index leading losses after SP Global Ratings cut the government ’s credit rating last week .
The Boursa Kuwait Premier Market Price index lost as much as 4.7 % , with Kuwait Finance House , National Bank of Kuwait and Ahli United Bank dropping more than 3.9 % .
Kuwait was downgraded one level to AA- , with SP maintaining a stable outlook .
Lower oil prices in 2020 and 2021 will have negative economic and fiscal implications for Kuwait given its high reliance on exports , the ratings company said .
On top of that , the country has lagged behind the reform momentum seen elsewhere in the region , the statement added .
Kuwait stocks will be added to MSCI Inc. ’s emerging - markets benchmark in May.
That is expected to trigger inflows from foreign investors .
The benchmark tracking large caps in Kuwait is down 27 % this year , contrasting with a 32 % jump in 2019 .
It ’s the second biggest drop in the Gulf this year after Dubai .
SP also revised outlooks to negative from stable for several U.A.E. banks , including First Abu Dhabi Bank PJSC , and said that the coronavirus pandemic could see Dubai property prices falling to levels seen 10 years ago .
MIDDLE EAST MARKETS : Saudi Arabia ’s Tadawul
All Share Index climbs 0.5 % as of 11:09 a.m. local time , after losing as much as 1.1%Saudi Aramco falls 0.5 % , while Al Rajhi Bank gains 0.9%READ , March 26 : Saudi Arabia ’s 2019 Budget Deficit Lower at 130.7B RiyalGauges in Dubai and Abu Dhabi rise 1.5 % and 2.6 % , respectivelyMORE , March 28 : Dubai Announces Economic Incentive Package for its Free ZonesIsrael ’s TA-35 retreats 2.3 % , extending losses this month to 22 % , the most on recordMORE , on March 26 : Long Virus Shutdown Will Crank Up Israel ’s Debt Burden to 86%Indexes in Bahrain , Oman , Qatar and Egypt fall as much as 1.8 % READ MORE : Egypt Sets Cash Withdrawal ,
Deposit Limits Amid CoronavirusRiyad Bank Growth May Slow Down , LDR
Improved After New DebtOman ’s Biggest Oil and Gas Producer to Cut Staffing on VirusMarch 27 : Lebanon Vows Recovery Plan for ‘ Broken ’ Economy by Year - EndMarch 26 : Gulf Sovereign Funds Seen Shedding $ 300 Billion in Market Mayhem
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Detroit auto show canceled; facility to be converted to coronavirus field hospital .
2020-03-29 02:11:28 +00:00 .
The 2020 North American International Auto Show in Detroit has been canceled because the Federal Emergency Management Agency has selected the TCF Center , the convention center that hosts the event to serve as a field hospital for COVID-19 cases for at least six months .
As of Saturday evening , Michigan had 4,650 cases and 11 deaths .
More than half of the state 's cases are in the three counties that make up Detroit : Oakland ( 1,018 ) , Wayne ( 939 ) , Macomb ( 534 ) .
The show will resume in June 2021 , organizers informed show sponsors in a memo Saturday that was obtained by the Detroit Free Press , part of the USA TODAY Network .
" The health and welfare of the citizens of Detroit and Michigan is paramount .
TCF Center is the ideal location for this important function at this critical and unprecedented time , ” North American International Auto Show Executive Director Rod Alberts said in the memo .
More : Why most auto dealers , service departments are open for business during coronavirus Auto show officials declined to comment on the memo .
The 2021 show will include all the events planned for this year , when the event was to move from its longtime winter date to summer so it could offer outdoor events along the riverfront , including test drives , demonstrations of self - driving cars and other new technologies , plus Motor Bella , a pre - show street festival in the heart of downtown Detroit .
The cancellation is another blow to the region ’s hospitality industry .
Social distancing : Chinese car company to deliver keys via drones
The auto show routinely draws 800,000 paying customers to its public days , plus thousands of automaker and supplier executives , engineers and journalists who attend pre - show events , filling restaurants and hotels .
The cancellation is more stress for those companies already suffering from the show ’s absence in January and current COVID-19 restrictions .
Holding the show this June became increasingly unfeasible as the economy reels from the impact of COVID-19 .
More : U.S. auto sales expected to plummet as coronavirus wreaks havoc
Even before it became clear a temporary field hospital was the best use of TCF Center ’s space and central location , there was reason to wonder if customers would be considering big purchases , or have interest in automakers introducing fancy new vehicles , barely two months from now amid rising unemployment figures .
The 2020 show had been scheduled to begin with the Motor Bella Italian and English vehicle street fest June 5 - 7 ; press and industry days June 9 - 11 ; the charity preview June 12 , and the public show June 13 - 20 .
New 2021 show dates and events Motor Bella – June 11 - 14 : A street fair of English and Italian cars and food .
The Gallery – June 14 : An invitation - only show of the latest exotic and luxury vehicles .
Press preview – June 15 - 16 : Automakers from around the world reveal new vehicles and technologies .
AutoMobili - D Powered by PlanetM – June 15 - 17 : Innovators showcase new ideas to automakers and suppliers .
Industry preview – June 16 - 17 : Engineers and designers study new vehicles for competitive information .
Charity preview – June 18 : Massive event raises millions for local charities .
Public show – June 19 - 26 This article originally appeared on Detroit Free Press : Coronavirus : Detroit auto show canceled , TCF Center to become hospital

Costco senior hours: Costco Wholesale Clubs add third weekly senior hour due to coronavirus demand .
2020-03-28 23:11:43 +00:00 .
Costco Wholesale Club will now offer three senior shopping hours a week amid the coronavirus pandemic and is allowing “ those with physical impairments ” to also participate .
After originally starting the special hours March 24 as a twice - weekly event for members 60 and up on Tuesdays and Thursdays , Costco quietly added Wednesdays as the third day .
The retailer edited its March 21 Facebook post announcing the special temporary senior hours Friday to note the change and updated its website Saturday about the special operating hours .
“ On Tuesdays , Wednesdays , and Thursdays , Costco warehouses will open from 8 to 9 a.m. for members ages 60 and older , and for those with physical impairments , ” Costco ’s website notes .
Store pharmacies also will be open earlier but food courts will maintain normal hours , according to the website .
The hours apply to all stores except for the company 's Business Center locations , which will remain open during regular hours .
Costco senior hour : Costco adds twice - weekly senior hour to help meet coronavirus shopping demands
Senior shopping times : Stores offer special hours for vulnerable customers amid coronavirus
In responding to comments on its Facebook page , Costco said only members meeting the criteria " will be allowed to enter the warehouse and guests will not be admitted . ”
Starting March 30 , Costco is temporarily cutting weekday hours and stores will close at 6:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and gas stations will close at 7 p.m. Shoppers at the Costco in Yonkers , line up in two lines along the edge of the parking structure , as they wait to get in to shop .
More Costco ’s website update on Saturday notes other changes such as a limited food court menu and new return restrictions .
Warehouses are not accepting returns of toilet paper , bottled water , sanitizing wipes , paper towels , rice and disinfecting spray .
Costco cutting hours : Stores , gas stations as of March 30 will be open fewer hours because of coronavirus crisis
Acknowledging that older adults and persons with underlying health conditions are more susceptible to COVID-19 , a growing number of stores have been dedicating time or opening earlier for senior shoppers and other at - risk groups .
Because of panic shopping , which has left store shelves empty in many places across the country , at - risk groups including seniors have had difficulty getting supplies .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus senior shopping : Costco Wholesale Club expands hours

Coronavirus: Donald Trump considering quarantine of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut .
2020-03-28 18:03:16 +00:00 .
US President Donald Trump has said he is considering imposing a quarantine on New York , New Jersey and Connecticut .
If it went ahead , the lockdown would see more than 21 million people confined to their homes .
Speaking at the White House he told reporters he would rather not impose the restrictions but that he may need to .
He said : " Some people would like to see New York quarantined because it 's a hot spot - New York , New Jersey , maybe one or two other places ... certain parts of Connecticut quarantined .
I 'm thinking about that right now . "
He went on : " We might not have to do it
but there is a possibility that sometime today we 'll do a quarantine , short term , two weeks for New York , probably New Jersey , certain parts of Connecticut . "
And he added : " Because they 're having problems down in Florida - a lot of New York going down .
We do n't want that . "
The number of deaths in New York has risen from 519 to 728 , with the number of cases now recorded at 52,318 .
Asked if the US would re - open by Easter , he said : " We 'll see what happens . "
Meanwhile , the governor of New York , Andrew Cuomo , said the price of ventilators in the US has almost doubled from $ 25,000 to $ 45,000 - driven up because each state is competing to buy them .
He said that the president has approved four more temporary hospital sites , adding 4,000 more beds - but he went on to criticise Mr Trump 's leadership .
Insisting the US has merely been reactive and failed to plan ahead , Mr Cuomo said : " We have been behind this virus from day one . "
Saying he is trying to stockpile medical supplies before the expected peak in a fortnight , he said : " You do n't win on defence , you win on offence .
You have to get ahead of this . "
It came as non - coronavirus patients on the west coast of the US are set to be transferred onto a US Navy hospital ship moored off Los Angeles to help the city 's overburdened hospitals .
A handful of patients will be taken to the USNS Mercy , one of the navy 's two hospital ships , on Saturday as the Californian city struggles to cope with the COVID-19 outbreak .
The captain of the ship , which has 1,100 hospital beds , said they would gradually take on more patients over time to free up space in hospitals for coronavirus patients .
" We would start slowly with a number like five for the first day , then doubling that and doubling again , " Navy Captain John Rotruck said .
The Mercy 's 1,000 sailors , of which two - thirds are medical staff , have spent the last week training at sea as it is the first time many of them have worked together .
California 's 40 million residents were placed on lockdown on 19 March , with its governor estimating 56 % of the state 's population would be infected over eight weeks .
Listen to Divided States on Apple podcasts , Google Podcasts , Spotify , and
Spreaker
It is the third hardest hit state in the country , after New York and New Jersey , with a total of 4,905 coronavirus cases confirmed and 102 deaths in California by Thursday evening .
Los Angeles has been the state 's hardest hit city , with 1,482 confirmed cases and 26 deaths .
On Friday the US overtook China and Italy in the number of confirmed cases , which reached 104,860 on Saturday and 1,581 deaths .
The country now has just over 17 % of the world 's 615,519 cases .
The US Navy 's other hospital ship , the USNS Comfort , is preparing to leave Virginia on Saturday to head to New York City which is the worst hit area of the US .

Stunning photos show Pope Francis praying to an empty St. Peter's Square amid the coronavirus .
2020-03-28 17:27:48 +00:00 .
As Easter approaches , images from an empty Friday mass at St. Peter 's Basilica paint a stark portrait of the Vatican , which , along with surrounding Italy , has been afflicted by coronavirus .
During the rain - soaked Urbi and Orbi prayer , Pope Francis stood underneath a canopy as he held service to an empty St. Peter 's Square .
The Pope likened the coronavirus pandemic to an " unexpected , turbulent storm " that brings us on " the same boat . "
He also expressed gratitude for the " ordinary people ... who do not appear in newspaper and magazine headlines " – doctors , nurses , grocery store workers and cleaners , among other essential employees working at the frontline of the pandemic .
' How we can show love for the most vulnerable ' : Churches cancel in - person Easter services
This mass provides an example of how the pope will celebrate many of the Catholic Church 's largest amid this crisis .
He will celebrate Palm Sunday , Holy Thursday , Easter vigil and Easter Sunday at the basilica 's central altar .
Italy ’s outbreak includes the world ’s highest number of deaths for a single nation .
The Vatican has four confirmed cases .
Pope Francis gives the Urbi et orbi blessing after presiding over a moment of prayer in St Peter 's Square .
March 27 , 2020
More
Pope Francis prepares to give the Urbi et orbi blessing after presiding over a moment of prayer on the sagrato of St Peter 's Basilica , the platform at the top of the steps immediately in front of the facade of the church .
More
Pope Francis says a prayer in St. Peter 's Square .
March 27 , 2020
More
Praying in a desolately empty St. Peter 's Square , Pope Francis on Friday likened the coronavirus pandemic to a storm laying bare illusions that people can be self - sufficient and instead finds " all of us fragile and disoriented " and needing each other 's help and comfort .
More
In a Friday mass , Pope Francis He also expressed gratitude for doctors , nurses , grocery store workers and cleaners , among other essential employees working at the frontline of the pandemic .
March 27 , 2020
More
Pope Francis presides over a moment of prayer in St. Peter 's Square .
He likened the coronavirus pandemic to an " unexpected , turbulent storm " that brings us on " the same boat . "
March 27 , 2020
More
Pope Francis presides over a moment of prayer on the sagrato of St Peter 's Basilica , the platform at the top of the steps immediately in front of the facade of the church .
March 27 , 2020
More
Pope Francis performs mass on Friday to an empty St. Peter 's Square in the Vatican .
Four people there have been confirmed to have the coronavirus .
March 27 , 2020
More
Pope Francis arrives to deliver an Urbi et orbi prayer from the empty St. Peter 's Square .
More
Pope Francis arrives to deliver an Urbi et orbi prayer from the empty St. Peter 's Square , at the Vatican .
March 27 , 2020 .
More
Contributing : The Associated Press .
Follow Joshua Bote on Twitter : @joshua_bote
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus :
Pope Francis prays to empty Vatican ,
St. Peter 's Square

Coronavirus Outbreak: UK Death Toll Rises By 260 To 1,019 .
2020-03-28 17:18:10 +00:00 .
At least 1,019 people have now died in the UK after contracting coronavirus , the most recent government figures have revealed – an increase of 260 in 24 hours .
The latest figures , accurate as of 5 pm on Friday , mark by far the most significant increase in deaths since the start of the outbreak .
It means the total number of deaths is 34 % higher than the equivalent figure yesterday .
This is the largest day - on - day percentage increase since March 18 , when the total rose from 71 to 104 ( a 46 % jump ) .
It took 13 days for the number of deaths in the UK to go from one to just over 100 .
It has taken a further 10 days for the total to go from just over 100 to just over 1,000 .
Meanwhile the number of people tested in the UK for coronavirus has now passed 120,000 .
The total as of 9 am on March 28 was 120,776 .
Just under 50,000 tests ( 47,958 ) were carried out in the seven days to 9 am March 28 .
In the previous seven days the number was 35,072 .
The total number of confirmed cases of coronavirus in the UK now stands at 17,089 , as of 9 am March 28 .
One week ago , on March 21 , the total stood at 5,018 .
The latest figures are correct as of 5 pm on Friday .
( Photo : DANIEL LEAL - OLIVAS via Getty Images )
More
Related ...
Sorry , Life After Lockdown Wo n't Be Dramatically Different
Will Extra Beds And Staff Testing Buy The NHS The Time It Needs For Coronavirus ?
Eight Things You Need To Know About Coronavirus
Today
Love HuffPost ?
Become a founding member of HuffPost Plus today .
This article originally appeared on HuffPost .

Coronavirus: Malaysia receives much-needed medical supplies from China in biggest consignment yet .
2020-03-28 15:11:51 +00:00 .
Malaysia , the country in Southeast Asia hardest hit by the Covid-19 pandemic , on Saturday received its largest consignment of medical supplies from China to date , with much - needed ventilators and masks among the donation .
As Malaysia ’s infection rates surged in recent weeks , it has been one of the top beneficiaries of China ’s so - called “ mask diplomacy ” drive to share equipment and expertise with other nations as it begins to bounce back from the pandemic much earlier than the rest of the world .
The latest consignment was formally handed over to the Malaysian Foreign Minister Hishammuddin Hussein by the Chinese ambassador Bai Tian in a brief ceremony , the Malaysian foreign ministry said in a statement .
The supplies consist of 100,008 nucleic acid diagnostic testing kits , 100,000 N95 masks , 500,000 surgical masks , 50,000 sets of personal protective equipment and 200 ventilators .
Chinese Ambassador to Malaysia Bai Tian , third from left , at the handover ceremony for the first batch of medical supplies donated by China on March 19 .
Photo : Xinhua
More
“ According to ambassador Bai Tian , the consignment is a gift to Malaysia in recognition of the very close relations and friendship between his country and Malaysia , ” the ministry said .
The supplies are also a “ gesture of goodwill in return for the valuable assistance that Malaysia had extended during the initial phase of Covid-19 in China , ” it added .
Malaysia ’s health ministry director general Dr Noor Hisham Abdullah on Saturday afternoon said the total number infections in the country had risen to 2,320 , after 159 new cases were confirmed .
The death toll currently stands at 27 .
The country ’s frontline medical workers in particular are likely to welcome the supply of ventilators , which are crucial to help treat the most severe coronavirus patients who are experiencing lung failure , and have been described by the governor of New York , Andrew Cuomo , as the equivalent “ to this war what missiles were in World War II ” .
Last week , Noor Hisham said his ministry had placed an order for 800 additional ventilator units .
At present there are 1,670 ventilators of various types in the country .
A Health worker in a protective suit gestures in a tent erected to test for coronavirus at a clinic in Kuala Lumpur on March 24 .
Photo : AP
More
The Chinese government and state - backed companies have in recent weeks sent Malaysia multiple batches of supplies including masks , goggles , test kits and surgical face shields – the first being dispatched on March 19 .
That donation was publicised by the Chinese embassy , which posted pictures on Facebook of a truck carrying the supplies adorned with a banner that carried both countries ’ flags and a Malay idiom that referenced solidarity in good and bad times .
The China Communications Construction Company , which is building a multibillion dollar rail link in Malaysia , as well charity foundations linked to South China Morning Post - owner Alibaba Group Holding and its co - founder Jack Ma have also made contributions .
Apart from equipment , China is also considering sending medical experts to Malaysia , embassy official Jue Yun told local daily the New Straits Times on Saturday .
City health officials prepare to spray disinfectant on a street as a precaution against coronavirus in Kuala Lumpur on Saturday .
Photo : AP
More
Hishammuddin requested help from China soon after he assumed his role on March 11 , following the dramatic political coup last month staged by the Perikatan Nasional coalition against the government of elder statesman Mahathir Mohamad .
Story continues

Coronavirus: Chinese cinemas told to close just a week after reopening .
2020-03-28 15:11:51 +00:00 .
Just a week after being given the green light to reopen , cinemas across China have been ordered to close once more as the government seeks to strike a balance between rebooting the economy and preventing a second wave of Covid-19 cases .
The notice was issued by the China Film Administration on Thursday , according to a report the same day by local news outlet Caixin.com .
It was not otherwise made public .
While cinemas in some parts of the country have been back in business since March 20 , those in major cities remained closed .
The 24 million or so people who live in the eastern metropolis of Shanghai had been looking forward to their screens reopening on Friday .
Cinema managers were quoted by Caixin as saying that the closure notice might have been prompted by a locally transmitted case of Covid-10 that was reported on Thursday in Zhejiang province , which neighbours Shanghai .
The infection was one of 55 reported across China that day , but the only one that was not imported , the report said .
China ’s cinema industry has been among the worst hit by the health crisis .
Earlier on Thursday , the National Development and Reform Commission said it had spoken to industry executives and relevant organisations , and had drawn up proposals for a support package .
“ The novel coronavirus pandemic has had a severe impact on the movie industry , and the industry chain has seen an all - round disruption , ” the economic planning agency said on its website .
“ The companies are facing serious survival challenges , ” it said , without saying how it planned to help .
While there have been sporadic cases of individual businesses being ordered to close soon after being allowed to reopen , a nationwide ban on an entire industry is unusual .
Earlier this month , a hotpot restaurant chain in Liaoning province was ordered to close all of its outlets just three days after being told it could reopen , when three new Covid-19 cases were found in the city of Dandong , according to Canyin88.com , which monitors the industry .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : Chinese cinemas told to close just a week after reopening first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Rod Stewart shows support for NHS from self-isolation in Florida .
2020-03-28 12:53:20 +00:00 .
Sir Rod Stewart has shown his support for NHS workers after sharing a self - isolation clip of himself and family joining in with the Clap for Carers from thousands of miles away in Florida .
The singer , who posted the video from his plush US home on social media , was joined by wife Penny Lancaster , their sons Alastair , 14 , and Aiden , nine , and Rod ’s children Sean , 39 and Ruby , 32 .
Read more : Sir Rod Stewart arrested and charged for punching security guard at US hotel
The 75 - year - old addresses the camera with the words : “ Our family want to say a huge thank you to everyone working in the NHS , as well as to all the healthcare workers and emergency services that are helping keep Britain ’s families safe in these extremely difficult times . ”
The Stewart clan then breakout into claps and cheers like the planned show of appreciation which swept across the nation at 8 pm Thursday night ( 26 March ) as people hung out of windows and on doorsteps displaying their gratitude to those putting themselves at risk on the frontline as the coronavirus continues to grip the world .
Stewart and former model Lancaster , who began dating in 1999 and married in 2007 , followed protocol by going into self - isolation as a household earlier this month .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of COVID-19 cases in your local area
Explained : Symptoms , latest advice and how it compares to the flu
However , they did manage to throw one last bash before doing so , hosting a glitzy gathering of their closest friends to celebrate Lancaster turning 49 .
The evening was well documented on social media , with photos and captions about the last hurrah .
Lancaster wrote on Instagram : “ Thanks to all our friends for coming together to celebrate my birthday during the most unprecedented time we have known .
Read more : Sir Rod Stewart takes pet dog to Brits rehearsals
“ Together we stand , together we give thanks and although this might be one of the last get togethers for a while let ’s pray we all remain safe and healthy . ”
According to latest reports , there are 3,198 cases of COVID-19 reported in Florida , with 46 deaths linked to the coronavirus .

Merkel Pleads With Germans for Patience on Lockdown Measures .
2020-03-28 06:32:54 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Chancellor Angela Merkel said it ’s premature to consider easing Germany ’s lockdown measures as coronavirus infections can take as long as 14 days to incubate .
“ We ’re not even close to where we can see if the measures are working , ” Merkel said via audio conference from Berlin in her first public comments since entering precautionary quarantine on Sunday .
The German leader isolated herself at home after she learned that she had come in contact with a doctor who later tested positive .
Two initial tests turned up a negative result .
Merkel spoke after back - to - back
video conferences with leaders of the Group of 20 nations and European Union member states .
The G-20 said they were injecting more than $ 5 trillion to help buoy the global economy -- and that leaders will do “ whatever it takes ” to stave off economic catastrophe .
“ The coronavirus hit the economy at the beginning of a recovery and thus in a sensitive phase , ” Andreas Pinkwart , economy minister in the German state of North Rhine - Westphalia , told Bloomberg TV Friday .
“ So the measures taken to protect the health of our citizens are slowing down the economy in a drastic way . ”
Pinkwart said he is hopeful that Germany will emerge from recession during the European summer and that the crisis , once it has passed , may be a chance to boost investment in Green projects .
Germans support the actions of Merkel ’s government by a large majority of 89 % , according to a survey for broadcaster ZDF published Friday .
Three - quarters said public restrictions announced a week ago are right , while 20 % said they were n’t sufficient .
Merkel bolstered her position as Germany ’s most popular politician , and her Christian Democratic - led bloc gained seven points -- its biggest monthly increase in the poll ’s history -- to 33 % , according to the March 23 - 26 survey of 1,473 people .
European leaders , meanwhile , struggled to agree on a concrete strategy to contain the fallout from the pandemic , leaving key details to be hammered out in the weeks ahead .
One of the sticking points was over financing recovery efforts , with some countries pushing for so - called coronabonds to jointly raise funds .
‘ Preferred Instrument ’
Merkel said the European Stability Mechanism “ is the preferred instrument ” for providing aid in the euro area .
Merkel ’s government this week secured emergency spending powers to unleash a historic rescue package worth more than 750 billion euros ( $ 824 billion ) .
The measures -- including higher social spending , loans for businesses and funds to potentially buy stakes in stricken companies -- will be financed by 156 billion euros in new debt , blowing open the country ’s previous commitment to balanced budgets .
Before entering quarantine , Merkel tightened Germany ’s lockdown measures , including banning gatherings of more than two people .
Last week , she called the disease the country ’s biggest challenge since World War II .
In a worst - case scenario without government intervention , 88 % of the German population would swiftly have been infected , with a death toll close to 900,000 , according to a study published Thursday by an Imperial College London research team .
Quick and aggressive measures could cut the death toll to some 22,600 , the researchers found .
( Updates with study in final paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

'Stay home,' Irish PM tells nation in coronavirus battle .
2020-03-28 04:55:45 +00:00 .
By Padraic Halpin and Conor Humphries DUBLIN
( Reuters ) - Ireland 's prime minister ordered citizens to stay home until April 12 to help slow the spread of coronavirus , telling them they can only leave to shop for groceries , for brief individual physical exercise or to make family visits that are essential .
Almost all shops will be shut , all public gatherings outside of household units prohibited completely , and those over the age of 70 or with chronic diseases will be told to stay in their homes completely .
These " radical actions " were aimed at saving as many lives as possible , Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said .
Varadkar had earlier warned that Ireland 's intensive care units would be at capacity within a few days given the rate of spread of coronavirus .
Confirmed cases of coronavirus in Ireland rose to 2,121 on Friday from 1,819 a day ago , with 22 deaths .
I 'm appealing to every man , woman and child to make these sacrifices for the love of each other .
To begin each day knowing that ever single inconvenience will save lives .
Show that you care for your family and friends : Stay home , " Varadkar told a news conference .
" There is n't much more beyond this I think that we could do in terms of further restrictive measures . "
Ireland had previously closed schools , universities , pubs and most non - essential retail in a gradual ramping up of restrictions over the last two weeks .
Other fresh measures include restricting public transport to essential workers , with travel for all severely restricted beyond two kilometers from the radius of their own home .
Despite the announcement that the restrictions will be introduced from midnight , the list of workers and premises deemed as essential will not be published until Saturday , a government spokesman said .
" GO FURTHER "
Ireland 's chief medical officer , Tony Holohan , said the initial measures were working with the increase in the total number of cases slowing down compared to what they might have expected but that " does not tell us that the worst is over . "
Holohan had expressed particular concern on the number of intensive care admission - 59 at the last count on Wednesday , representing over 10 % Ireland 's capacity - and that community transmission accounted for 52 % of all cases .
" We think we see signs that are encouraging us , that this is helping .
But we think we need to go further , " he said .
" We think in the early course of this infection , with the support that we have had from the public , that with these additional strengthening measures , we can drive the infection back out of the community and more into households . "
Ireland significantly increased income support for those who had already lost their jobs or were at risk of joining them this week .
A government official reported " unprecedented demand " for the payments earlier on Friday .
The applications for the special pandemic unemployment benefit and regular jobseekers payment equated to 10 months worth of normal claim load in just 10 days , Elizabeth Canavan , an assistant secretary at Varadkar 's department , said .
In a bid to slow an unemployment surge a state - funded think tank warned could hit 18 % by summer from 4.8 % last month , the government will pay 70 % of workers ' wages for struggling firms and is urging many to re - employ staff already cut .
Some 11,200 firms applied for the assistance by 1300 GMT , just hours after the opening of he scheme , the head of Ireland 's tax authority , Niall Cody , told national broadcaster RTE .
(
Editing by Catherine Evans , Alistair Bell and Pritha Sarkar )

This Morning's Ruth and Eamonn aren't social distancing on show because they live together .
2020-03-28 02:11:33 +00:00 .
This Morning presenters Ruth Langsford and Eamonn Holmes have revealed why they are not sitting further apart on the show at the moment .
With the current coronavirus situation , it 's expected that those appearing on live TV sit an appropriate distance away from each other .
However , Ruth and Eamonn have still been sitting in close proximity as normal , and explained on today 's ( March 27 ) episode that because they live together , it is n't an issue . "
As regards to social distancing , now do n't bother phoning in and asking , ' Why are these two together ? ' "
Eamonn said .
" Because we are together , we live together .
In case a lot of you do n't know this , we actually do ! "
" Some people think it 's a fake marriage , a TV marriage .
"
Ruth joked , with Eamonn adding : " A lot of people think , ' How could she have pulled him ? ' " " Punching ! "
Ruth quipped , as Eamonn continued : " But we even share a bed ... when I do n't fall asleep downstairs on the sofa . "
" We 're okay , this is allowed because we 're from the same household , " Ruth added .
" If it was me and Rochelle Humes here ... " Eamonn noted , before Ruth interjected : " Much to your disappointment ...
you 're stuck with me
I 'm afraid .
" Meanwhile , earlier this week Phillip Schofield was forced to clarify the ' windows ' on the show 's set after some viewers had expressed concern that life seemed to be going on as normal in the background despite the current restrictions .
" We should say that when we were on the South Bank that was our view , now we 're in Television Centre , it 's not , " he said .
" That was recorded two years ago .
And it 's on a very , very long , long loop . "
Co - presenter Holly Willoughby added : " We can make it winter , we can make it snow at the drop of a hat .
Literally we can do all sorts of stuff .
I mean , we ca n't today ...
we want the sunshine . "
" It was spring for ages , then we thought , ' Oh to hell with it , let 's put some leaves on the trees , ' "
Phil added .
" Which is what we 've done now .
But it 's not a live shot . "
This Morning airs weekday mornings on ITV at 10 am .
The information in this story is accurate as of the publication date .
While we are attempting to keep our content as up - to - date as possible , the situation surrounding the coronavirus pandemic continues to develop rapidly , so it 's possible that some information and recommendations may have changed since publishing .
For any concerns and latest advice , visit the World Health Organisation .
If you 're in the UK , the National Health Service can also provide useful information and support , while US users can contact the Center for Disease Control and Prevention .
Digital Spy now has a newsletter – sign up to get it sent straight to your inbox .
Want up - to - the - minute entertainment news and features ?
Just hit ' Like ' on our Digital Spy Facebook page and ' Follow ' on our @digitalspy Instagram and Twitter accounts .

Cuomo Says Ventilator Needs Not Based on ‘Feelings’ After Trump Attack .
2020-03-27 23:21:39 +00:00 .
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo hit back at Donald Trump on Friday after the president said he “ felt ” that New York , the struggling epicenter of the coronavirus , did not need the 30,000 ventilators officials have demanded .
With 519 deaths and 44,635 confirmed cases , of which 6,481 require hospitalization , the coronavirus pandemic has put New York ’s medical facilities on the brink .
Cuomo has been practically begging for ventilators for days , slamming the federal government for initially sending 400 from the national stockpile when the state needed 30,000 .
The Trump administration later sent 4,000 more .
In an interview on Fox News on Thursday night , Trump said he doubted that states , including New York , actually needed the amount of equipment they were asking for .
“ I have a feeling that a lot of the numbers that are being said in some areas are just bigger than they ’re going to be .
I do n’t believe that you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators , ” he said .
Then , on Friday , he wrote a series of frenzied tweets , saying General Motors , which reportedly had a plan to make ventilators that was rejected by the federal government , must immediately open a plant for production .
“ START MAKING VENTILATORS , NOW ! ! ! ! ! !
FORD , GET GOING ON VENTILATORS , FAST ! ! ! ! ! ! ”
he tweeted .
( Despite his tweets , Trump had still not implemented the Defense Production Act , which forces companies to manufacture supplies , White House officials told The Daily Beast . )
In a Friday briefing at the Javits Center , which is being converted into a massive emergency hospital , Cuomo did not name - check Trump but said equipment needs were not based on “ feelings . ”
“ Look I do n’t have a crystal ball , everybody is entitled to their own opinion but I do n’t operate here on opinion , ” he said .
“ I operate on facts and on data and on numbers and on projections . ”
He said experts ’ projections for New York predict that the state will hit its apex for hospitalization rates in 21 days .
The state is building a stockpile of resources for when that apex hits and the entire system is stressed , Cuomo said .
That includes 3,000 ventilators that would be distributed to hospitals as needs arise — a fraction of the total 30,000 needed across the state .
“ Those are numbers , not ‘ I feel , I think , I believe , I want to believe . ’
Make the decisions based on the data and the science , ” he said .
“ I hope we do n’t need 30,000 ventilators , I hope some natural weather change happens overnight and kills the virus globally .
That ’s what I hope .
But that ’s my hope , that ’s my emotion , that ’s my thought .
The numbers say you may need 30,000 . ”
Health - care workers say ICU and emergency rooms in New York are “ under siege ” and running desperately low on personal protective gear and medical equipment , including ventilators .
“ We have never seen anything like this , and we are so unprepared for the need that seems to grow daily , ” an NYU Langone doctor told The Daily Beast on Thursday .
“ Honestly , I ’m terrified . ”
The U.S. now has more coronavirus cases than anywhere else in the world , with 86,012 positive diagnoses , according to Johns Hopkins University ’s tracker .
Cuomo announced on Friday that the state was building another four emergency hospitals in convention centers , university stadiums , and shipping terminals , on top of four makeshift facilities already being built , to meet the 140,000 beds needed .
“ We are doing things that have never been done before , ” he said .
Read more at The Daily Beast .
Got a tip ?
Send it to The Daily Beast here
Get our top stories in your inbox every day .
Sign up now !
Daily Beast Membership :
Beast Inside goes deeper on the stories that matter to you .
Learn more .

Disney World, Disneyland to stay closed indefinitely amid coronavirus pandemic .
2020-03-27 23:00:37 +00:00 .
Citing an " increasingly complex crisis , " Disneyland and Disney World are going to stay closed " until further notice " due to the coronavirus pandemic , the Walt Disney Company said Friday .
The company 's decision dashes hopes that the fabled theme parks would reopen by next month , as had been previously announced .
Earlier this week , Universal Orlando Resort and Universal Studios Hollywood announced they were extending their closures through April 19 .
For Disney , the concern was about making sure park - goers and employees are n't exposed to virus .
" While there is still much uncertainty with respect to the impacts of COVID-19 , the safety and well - being of our guests and employees remains the Walt Disney Company ’s top priority , " the company said in a email statement .
It said the decision was " in line with direction provided by health experts and government officials . "
The closures came as the number of people infected by the coronavirus continues to grow in the U.S. despite efforts at social distancing , closure of dine - in restaurants and bars and rampant warnings to take precautions like frequent hand washing .
Disney said that employees at both the Anaheim , California , and Orlando , Florida , parks – " cast members " in Disney parlance – will be paid through April 18 .
The Universal parks cited " current conditions " in announcing the extension of its parks until April 19 .
Universal Orlando Resort and Universal Studios Hollywood are extending their closures as the coronavirus pandemic continues to spread .
In a joint statement to USA TODAY , the theme parks , which had previously said they would be closed for most of March , said they will remain closed through April 19 " as we continue to respond to current conditions and make the health and safety of team members and guests our top priority . "
In addition to the theme parks , Universal CityWalk Orlando and Universal CityWalk Hollywood , the themed dining and shopping areas near each park 's entry gates , will also remain closed .
Universal Orlando Resort hotels have also temporarily suspended operations .
On March 19 , California Governor Gavin Newsom put his state 's 40 million residents under a shelter - in - place order .
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis declared a state of emergency on March 9 and has since implemented additional measures such as closing bars and nightclubs for 30 days and requiring new arrivals from the New York metro area to self - quarantine for 14 days .
Coronavirus closures : Sea World , Walt Disney World , Disneyland Paris and Universal Orlando Resort
Contributing : Bryan Alexander and Hannah Yasharoff , USA TODAY
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Disney extend closures ' until further notice '

Hollyoaks' Mercedes and Sylver have surprise reunion .
2020-03-27 21:55:39 +00:00 .
Hollyoaks spoilers for Friday , March 27 's first - look episode on E4 follow .
Hollyoaks has shocked viewers with a reconciliation for estranged couple Mercedes and Sylver McQueen .
Until recently , Sylver ( David Tag ) was fully intending to marry his new love Grace Black ( Tamara Wall ) , but he has become conflicted ever since learning Grace shot his wife .
Grace faced some temptation of her own in Friday 's ( March 27 ) first look episode after being splashed by an arriving car — when a handsome stranger stepped out .
Related : 12 huge Hollyoaks spoilers for next week This gentleman — who viewers already know is Mitchell , Celeste and Toby 's long - lost father Felix Westwood ( Richard Blackwood ) — quickly managed to charm his way out of trouble with Grace by inviting her out of a drink .
Meanwhile , Mercedes ( Jennifer Metcalfe ) was realising that she still had some deep feelings for Sylver , with her latest fling Warren Fox ( Jamie Lomas ) actually showing some grace by agreeing to stand aside .
Goldie McQueen ( Chelsee Healey ) sprang into action upon hearing about Mercedes 's feelings for her husband by arranging a surprise dinner for her relative .
A dolled - up Mercedes was surprised by Sylver , who was all decked out himself in his wedding suit .
He also had Mercy 's jaw dropping by revealing he still loved her . "
Mercedes McQueen , please will you stay married to me ? "
he asked on one knee , with Mercy promising : " Forever , baby ! "
In spite of all of the cheating and lying the couple had been through , they were able to finally show each other their true feelings with a romantic kiss .
Hollyoaks airs Mondays and Tuesdays at 6.30pm on Channel 4 , with first - look episodes airing on E4 at 7 pm .
Wednesdays through Fridays on E4 will feature classic episodes called Hollyoaks Favourites to compensate for the soap suspending filming in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic .
Digital Spy now has a newsletter – sign up to get it sent straight to your inbox .
Read more Hollyoaks spoilers on our dedicated homepage Want up - to - the - minute soaps news , spoilers and gossip on your social feeds ?
Just hit ' Like ' on our Digital Spy Soaps Facebook page and ' Follow ' on our @soapscoop Twitter account .

Bitcoin and Ether Prices Stagnate as Traders Take Wait-and-See Approach .
2020-03-27 21:19:09 +00:00 .
After staging a recovery earlier this week , cryptocurrencies were stuck in a holding pattern Friday afternoon .
Bitcoin ( BTC ) and ether ( ETH ) appeared to be in a period of consolidation where prices bounce around within a tight range , showing indecisiveness among traders .
Bitcoin and ether had both climbed by less than a percent .
Notable performers on CoinDesk ’s big board include XRP ( XRP ) , up 10 percent , Stellar ( XLM ) in the green 3 percent and dash , up 4 percent .
All 24 - hour price changes are from 20:00 UTC ( 4 p.m. ET ) on March 27 .
Related :
Strange Days : SP 500 Is More Volatile Than Bitcoin This Month Traditional markets , meanwhile , continued to reel from the record unemployment claims in the U.S. , part of the fallout from the coronavirus outbreak , despite a $ 2 trillion stimulus package making its way to President Donald Trump for his signature .
U.S. stocks closed with the SP 500 index down 3 percent .
Earlier in the day , Japan ’s Nikkei 255 closed its session up 3.8 percent .
For Europe , the FTSE 100 Index closed in the red 3.3 percent .
See also : How a Flurry of ‘ Digital Dollar ’ Proposals Made It to Congress Federal Reserve “ and fiscal policies have averted for now accelerated economic and financial de - leveraging .
Unfortunately , they ca n’t avoid a deep and sudden recession resulting in alarming unemployment and business closures , ” Mohamed A. El - Erian , chief economic adviser at Allianz , wrote in a tweet .
On low volumes , bitcoin ’s price changes have narrowed , staying in a $ 6,400-$6,900 per 1 BTC range since March 24 .
This has put the bellwether cryptocurrency ’s 10 - day and 50 - day moving averages close to each other .
Related : Bitcoin Price Decline Prompts US Mining Firm to Shut Down ‘ Indefinitely
’
“ I think bitcoin just moved up from its $ 4,000-$5,000 crash range earlier than equities did .
While equity markets have been rallying the last couple of sessions , other more safe haven - type markets like bonds and gold have been consolidating , ” said Siddharth Jha , a former Wall Street analyst now focused on blockchain technology at startup Arbol .
Indeed , gold has started to consolidate moving averages as of March 27 .
“ Some people I respect say gold is a buy here , ” said Rupert Douglas , head of business development for institutional sales at Koine , a digital asset manager .
“ Perhaps it is , perhaps silver is going to go rocketing higher , but if it does n’t and trades lower , does bitcoin follow ? ”
The crash on March 12 is still fresh in the minds of crypto traders and fund managers , leaving some to think no trading decisions are the best decisions for the time being .
“ Markets need to be saturated for people to look for incremental yield .
Plus , there ’s a lot of wound licking , post - BitMEX debacle , ” said Vishal Shah , founder of Alpha5 , a new derivatives exchange backed by large crypto funds .
See also : Strange Days : SP 500 Is More Volatile Than Bitcoin This Month
Shah was referring to the $ 700 million of liquidations on BitMEX on March 12 .
This caused problems for the Ethereum network - based DeFi ecosystem , which relies on ether ’s price to ensure stability .
Not surprisingly , ether has been consolidating , although there was a bit of volume early Friday .
“ After a major crash and rebound , markets often consolidate for some time to see which way the flows may develop , ” Arbol ’s Jha said .
Related Stories

Half the residents who tested positive for the coronavirus in a Washington nursing home did not yet have symptoms, but they were highly contagious .
2020-03-27 20:16:29 +00:00 .
Half of those infected had not yet shown symptoms , but the report said they were highly contagious . Evidence from Wuhan , China , suggests people can spread the disease without showing symptoms .
High - risk populations , particularly in close quarters , may need greater precautions to prevent the virus , including stricter distancing efforts and personal protective equipment for residents and staff at care facilities , the CDC report said . Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Two weeks after the first COVID-19 diagnosis at a nursing facility in King County , Washington , 23 more residents tested positive for the disease caused by the novel coronavirus — but half of them had not yet shown any symptoms , according to a new report .
The paper , featured in the CDC 's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report on Friday , adds to previous research that people can have the virus for days before developing the tell - tale fever , cough , or shortness - of - breath , and in that time they may well be contagious .
home nurse helping an elderly women during coronavirus
More
Yves Herman / Reuters
It is further evidence , the authors say , that people working with high - risk populations such as the elderly as a care home restrict person - to - person contact , practice social distancing , and provide protective equipment for all residents and staff .
" Symptom - based screening in skilled nursing facilities could fail to identify approximately half of residents with COVID-19 , " the authors wrote .
The spread of coronavirus in King County was the first major outbreak of the virus seen in the US .
The first case of COVID-19 at a King County nursing home was identified February 28 .
Contact tracers believe it started with a healthcare professional working at the home , who had symptoms of the coronavirus .
Within a week , seven residents had testing positive after showing symptoms .
Others later developed symptoms , and also tested positive .
Coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) testing kits in New Rochelle , New York , March 17 , 2020 .
More Reuters / Mike Segar
As the epidemic escalated , the home started conducting blanket tests , including on residents who did not show any symptoms , eventually testing 76 of the 82 people in the facility .
Three refused to be tested , two were already in hospital being treated for the disease by the time testing began , and one was not available for testing .
According to the report , a third ( 23 ) of them tested positive , but 13 of them had no symptoms at all .
Of those who did exhibit symptoms , eight had typical symptoms , but two had more unusual symptoms : melancholy and nausea .
A week later , 10 of the 13 with asymptomatic cases had developed symptoms .
The report does have limitations .
It only addresses a single long - term care facility , and its authors acknowledge it can be difficulty to accurately assess symptoms among patients with dementia and other forms of cognitive decline .
But the novel coronavirus is already known to spread rapidly , particularly under close confines such as a care facility or nursing home .
Currently , attempts to slow the spread of the virus primarily rely on common symptoms like fever , coughing , and shortness of breath to identify and isolate new cases .
Business Insider

Instacart shoppers are planning a nationwide strike to demand better safety protections and pay amid COVID-19 .
2020-03-27 17:56:49 +00:00 .
Instacart shoppers , led by the folks over at Gig Workers Collective , are planning a nationwide strike in protest of the company 's practices amid the COVID-19 pandemic , Vice first reported .
Shoppers , who are responsible for grocery shopping and deliveries , say they have urged Instacart to take proper safety precautions , such as providing hand sanitizer and disinfectant products , but " have been ignored , " Gig Workers Collective wrote in a post today .
On March 30 , shoppers will strike and not return to work until their demands are met .
Shoppers are demanding Instacart provide personal protective equipment at no cost to workers and hazard pay of $ 5 extra per order , change the default tip to 10 % , extend the sick pay policy to those who have a doctor 's note for a pre - existing condition that may make them more susceptible to contracting the virus , and extend the deadline to qualify for those benefits beyond April 8th .
" The health and safety of our entire community — shoppers , customers , and employees — is our first priority , " an Instacart spokesperson said in a statement to TechCrunch .
" Our goal is to offer a safe and flexible earnings opportunity to shoppers , while also proactively taking the appropriate precautionary measures to operate safely .
We want to underscore that we absolutely respect the rights of shoppers to provide us feedback and voice their concerns .
It ’s a valuable way for us to continuously make improvements to the shopper experience and we ’re committed to supporting this important community during this critical time . ”
Shortly after their demands went public , Instacart outlined its plans to extend its financial assistance through May 8 , 2020 .
The company says it is also extending contactless deliveries to alcohol so that shoppers will no longer need to collect signatures from customers unless it 's explicitly required by the state or retailer .
While Instacart has addressed some of the demands , the company has not met all of them .
This all comes after Instacart announced it would bring on another 300,000 independent contractors to keep up with the demand that has resulted from many Americans staying at home during the pandemic .
" Instacart has a well established history of exploiting its Shoppers , one that extends years back before our current crisis , " the shoppers wrote .
" Now , its mistreatment of Shoppers has stooped to an all - time low .
They are profiting astronomically off of us literally risking our lives , all while refusing to provide us with effective protection , meaningful pay , and meaningful benefits . "
Amid the coronavirus outbreak , Instacart has offered sick pay for in - store shoppers and extended pay for independent contractors .
The company has also implemented contactless deliveries , but shoppers say these efforts fall short .
In fact , shoppers say Instacart has failed to honor its promise of paying shoppers up to 14 days of pays if diagnosed or placed in quarantine .
It 's now widely understood that gig workers are providing essential services during these times , as many cities have enacted shelter - in - place ordinances and as vulnerable people are remaining at home in order to reduce their risk of exposure to the virus .
In San Francisco , legislators are pushing for more gig worker protections while the House of Representatives is currently reviewing the $ 2 trillion stimulus package that would provide gig workers with unemployment insurance .

Blue Apron Staves Off Obscurity With Another 15 Minutes of Fame .
2020-03-27 15:26:56 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The recent popularity of Blue Apron Holdings Inc. ’s mail - order meal kits is giving the struggling company a much - needed boost , but some industry watchers say that will pass once the coronavirus outbreak abates .
Blue Apron is attracting new users in part because fresh ingredients can be hard to find in supermarkets right now , said Dan McCarthy , an assistant professor of marketing at Emory University ’s Goizueta Business School .
However , he notes the company was “ bleeding customers very consistently ” up until recently and that ’s likely to be the case again once people return to their normal lives .
“ The amount of repeat business they were getting was not enough to sustain their business , ” McCarthy said in a phone interview .
“ It ’s likely delaying the inevitable . ”
Blue Apron declined to comment .
McCarthy has been following the meal - kit company since a few months before its June 2017 initial public offering and references it in lectures as a case study .
The company gained traction as an early pioneer in the meal - kit market , but the stock suffered an ill - timed IPO and has languished in the years since amid steep competition and customer retention challenges .
In February , Blue Apron said that it was evaluating options to rekindle the business , including raising additional capital or selling assets .
Then the coronavirus took hold , leading to a spike in demand from Americans trapped at home .
Shares of Blue Apron have quadrupled so far in March , even as the demand has sparked some worries about whether the company is equipped to handle the volume .
Some customers were notified last weekend that their orders would be delayed and certain recipes have been discontinued .
Supply Chain
Blue Apron has said it ’s simplifying operations and hiring temporary and permanent workers in its fulfillment centers to meet the increase in orders .
As of last week , the company said it had n’t seen any significant disruption from suppliers as a result of the outbreak .
German competitor HelloFresh SE says it ’s anticipating potential changes in delivery times due to stresses in the food - supply chain , though it ’s not seeing ingredient shortages so far .
Brittain Ladd , a global supply chain and strategy consultant that has advised investors on Blue Apron , said he ’s doubtful the company will be able to handle the newfound business .
Just a month ago , it said it was moving forward with plans to close a facility in Arlington , Texas .
That announcement came as the company said it would cut costs to comply with its debt covenants , barring the success of its growth strategy .
The company had $ 54.7 million in outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit facility and $ 300,000 in issued letters of credit under the facility as of Jan. 31 , according to company filings .
Ladd said he had previously advised two investors to buy the company when the stock traded near all - time lows of $ 2.10 more than a month ago .
The stock is now trading close to $ 12 .
McCarthy and Ladd say they do n’t have stock or positions in Blue Apron .
“ Certainly , no one is going to touch Blue Apron now , ” Ladd said in a phone interview .
“ Blue Apron is a company that is significantly overvalued only because of what is going on because of the coronavirus .
But when the virus disappears , that same Blue Apron remains . ”
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

NASA still tracking towards mid-to-late May SpaceX crew launch despite parachute mishap .
2020-03-27 13:25:26 +00:00 .
NASA provided an official update about the status of its Commercial Crew program , the project it 's working on with partners SpaceX and Boeing to return astronaut launch capabilities to American soil via private launch partners .
This week , SpaceX encountered an issue while testing the parachute system that will be used on its Crew Dragon spacecraft , but a new update from NASA indicates the the previously stated mid - to - late May window for its first ever launch with astronauts on board is still on the calendar .
The incident occurred on March 24 , and SpaceX provided a statement detailing what happened at the time .
Here 's their full statement : During a planned parachute drop test today , the test article suspended underneath the helicopter became unstable .
Out of an abundance of caution and to keep the helicopter crew safe , the pilot pulled the emergency release .
As the helicopter was not yet at target conditions , the test article was not armed , and as such , the parachute system did not initiate the parachute deployment sequence .
While the test article was lost , this was not a failure of the parachute system and most importantly no one was injured .
NASA and SpaceX are working together to determine the testing plan going forward in advance of Crew Dragon ’s second demonstration mission .
Per SpaceX , and NASA 's blog on Friday , the loss of the " spacecraft - like " testing device that was suspended underneath the helicopter does not reflect any problem on the part of the parachute system itself .
NASA included a closing paragraph in its update that noted it 's " looking at the parachute testing plan now and all the data we already have to determine next steps , " but it does conclude that it 's doing so in the interest of " flying the upcoming Demo-2 flight test in the mid - to - late May timeframe . "
Meanwhile , SpaceX also encountered an early engine cut - off issue during its most recent Starlink launch , which flew using a Falcon 9 rocket on March 18 .
NASA confirmed that it is participating in an investigation into what went wrong with that engine issue ( which , it should be noted , did n't actually affect the successful outcome of the launch itself ) .
It 's possible that either of these could impact the plans for the Demo-2 mission , but right now , things still appear to be on track .
NASA is also taking measure to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and enforcing remote work policies where applicable , but this also has n't had an effect on the Commercial Crew timelines to date .

Calls mount for new OPEC+ deal as oil prices and demand slide .
2020-03-27 13:25:26 +00:00 .
By Maria Tsvetkova , Rania El Gamal and Alex Lawler
MOSCOW / DUBAI / LONDON ( Reuters ) - Oil producers need to resume cooperation in an effort to stabilize the global market , Russian and OPEC officials said , as the industry reels from a demand and price collapse caused by the coronavirus pandemic and an emerging price war .
A three - year supply pact between the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) and other producers , including Russia , fell apart this month , prompting OPEC to remove limits on its output .
The resulting supply boost has coincided with plummeting demand as governments around the world implement national lockdowns to slow the spread of the virus .
That twin - pronged assault on prices has sent Brent crude LCOc1 to a 17 - year low below $ 25 a barrel and hammered the income of oil producers .
One of the reasons for the breakdown of the deal between OPEC and other producers , a group known as OPEC+ , was Russia 's reluctance to support bigger curbs to output .
But there are signs that resolve could be softening , with a senior Russian official telling Reuters that a new OPEC+ deal might be possible if other countries join in .
" Joint actions by countries are needed to restore the ( global ) economy ...
They ( joint actions ) are also possible in the OPEC+ deal 's framework , " said Kirill Dmitriev , the head of Russia 's sovereign wealth fund .
He and Energy Minister Alexander Novak were Russia 's top negotiators for the previous OPEC pact , which officially expires on March 31 .
Dmitriev declined to say what nations could be included in a new deal .
Though the United States is the largest oil producer not included in OPEC+ , the idea of Washington cooperating with other oil exporters has long been considered unlikely , not least because of U.S. antitrust laws .
However , the unprecendented situation in which policymakers find themselves appears to be bringing previously unthinkable ideas into play .
Forging a U.S.-Saudi oil alliance is one of " many , many ideas " being floated by U.S. policymakers , U.S. Energy Secretary Dan Brouillette told Bloomberg TV on Monday .
It is uncertain if the idea will become a formal proposal , he said .
U.S. President Donald Trump last week said that he would get involved in the oil price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia at the appropriate time .
Adding further pressure , the head of the International Energy Agency , an adviser to the United States and other industrialized countries , on Thursday called on Saudi Arabia to help stabilize the market .
OPEC , meanwhile , wants to look at ways to support the market .
Algeria , which holds the OPEC presidency at present , has called for a meeting of the group 's Economic Commission Board to be held no later than April 10 .
( Editing by Dmitry Zhdannikov and David Goodman )

Neighbours brings forward filming break due to coronavirus pandemic .
2020-03-27 12:49:17 +00:00 .
Neighbours will be bringing forward its scheduled filming break in light of the ongoing coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic , the show has confirmed .
The Aussie soap has taken steps to move its production break in light of the country 's current government restrictions , meaning shooting will stop a week earlier than originally planned .
In a statement to TV Tonight , the series ' producers Fremantle said that Neighbours will be taking a two - week break from today ( March 27 ) , rather than from next Friday ( April 3 ) .
Related : Neighbours star Colette Mann responds to decision to cut weekly episodes " To allow us to refine the Neighbours production model in light of the current government restrictions in place , Fremantle has decided to start its planned Easter break one week earlier than scheduled , and the series will break for two weeks from the end of shoot this evening ( March 27 ) " , a spokesperson said .
Fortunately , it does n't appear that the early break will have an impact on Neighbours ' airing schedule , so fans wo n't have to wait to catch up with the residents of Ramsay Street .
The statement continued : " The health , safety and well - being of our cast and crew and all involved on the series is our priority .
Production is planned to resume April 14 with no interruption to on - air delivery .
"
Neighbours ' latest behind - the - scenes update comes just days after Channel 5 revealed that it will be cutting down the soap 's weekly episodes in the UK , from five days to two .
Neighbours currently airs weekdays at 1.45pm and 5.30pm on Channel 5 ( UK ) and 6.30pm on 10 Peach ( Australia ) .
Home and Away airs weekdays at 1.15pm and 6 pm on Channel 5 ( UK ) .
The information in this story is accurate as of the publication date .
While we are attempting to keep our content as up - to - date as possible , the situation surrounding the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic continues to develop rapidly , so it 's possible that some information and recommendations may have changed since publishing .
For any concerns and latest advice , visit the World Health Organisation .
If you 're in the UK , the National Health Service can also provide useful information and support , while US users can contact the Center for Disease Control and Prevention .
Digital Spy now has a newsletter – sign up to get it sent straight to your inbox .
Read more Neighbours spoilers on our dedicated homepage Want up - to - the - minute soaps news , spoilers and gossip on your social feeds ?
Just hit ' Like ' on our Digital Spy Soaps Facebook page and ' Follow ' on our @soapscoop Twitter account .

Israel Weighs Options for El Al Including Bankruptcy .
2020-03-27 08:39:37 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Israel is considering options for El Al Airlines Ltd. that include a bankruptcy filing as the coronavirus outbreak wipes out demand for travel , according to people with knowledge of the situation .
Officials are also examining the scope for mergers involving El Al and Israel ’s two other main airlines , Israir Airlines and Arkia Israeli Airlines Ltd. , according to one person , who asked not to be named as the deliberations are private .
While radical steps are under consideration , discussions center on government - backed loans that would come in return for an efficiency plan including job losses and salary reductions , another person said , adding that the aid could total $ 500 million .
El Al , which was struggling for profitability even before the pandemic , has already announced job workforce cuts and furloughs .
Spokespeople for El Al and the Israeli government declined to comment .
The airline , which has 7.1 billion shekels ( $ 2 billion ) in debt , according to data compiled by Bloomberg , is among hundreds worldwide whose future is in doubt as the virus spreads .
Carriers could lose $ 252 billion in revenue this year , according to the International Air Transport Association , which says bailouts of $ 200 billion may be needed to save the industry .
Bezalel Smotrich , Israel ’s transport minister , said Tuesday in local media a loan was the most likely option for El Al .
At the same time he said Israel may not need three airlines and raised the possibility of a “ dissolution ” of El Al and a freeze in proceedings with the state keeping its jets to create a new airline .
The Finance Ministry ’s chief economist , Shira Greenberg , told Bloomberg on March 12 that El Al needed to propose a sound business plan before the government would put in money .
El Al has been closely tied to the development of Israel after being founded alongside the country itself in 1948 , and was state - owned until being privatized in 2004 .
According to the latest annual report the government owns 1.1 % of El Al and a “ golden share ” that protects national interests such as maintaining it as an Israeli company and ensuring a minimum flight capacity , including for emergency or security purposes .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Why Pennsylvania Had Far More Jobless Claims Than Other States .
2020-03-26 22:27:03 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Of the 3.3 million Americans applying for unemployment last week amid coronavirus shutdowns , the biggest share by far came from Pennsylvania , the fifth - largest state -- but it may be just a sign that many more filings are to come .
It ’s not clear if there was one overriding reason for the disparity , but there are several plausible explanations : The governor shut down business before other states , officials encouraged and made it easier for residents to apply for benefits , and administrators may be processing claims faster .
An estimated 378,908 people in Pennsylvania -- or 13.1 % of the unadjusted total -- filed for unemployment benefits in the week ended March 21 , more than 24 times the figure in the prior week .
That dwarfed the number of claims filed in much more populous states like California and Texas as well as New York , where about half of the nation ’s known coronavirus cases are located .
Pennsylvania is home to about 3.9 % of the U.S. population .
Governor Tom Wolf had ordered restaurants and bars to close their doors in parts of the state starting last Monday and urged nonessential businesses to do the same .
In a matter of days , local reports showed 190,000 people had filed for benefits .
Last Thursday , Wolf ordered all businesses that are n’t “ life - sustaining ” to close their physical locations .
A similar directive was not seen in New York until a few days later .
The Keystone State also tried to encourage people to apply and clearly outlined who qualifies in the unique circumstances .
On Monday , March 16 , state officials issued a statement outlining a liberal list of criteria for potential eligibility .
It included residents whose employers temporarily closed or reduced workers ’ hours due to Covid-19 ; employees who were told to stay home to avoid getting or spreading the disease ; people told to quarantine or self - isolate ; or those subject to local restrictions .
Some states , like New York , have been so overwhelmed by the exponential increase in claims that their websites are crashing and their hiring more people to process the claims .
In others , the phone lines are jammed .
Also , in some respects , Pennsylvania was already hurting .
Sectors like manufacturing and agriculture had already been under pressure from the U.S.-China trade war .
Manufacturers were battered further by supply - chain disruptions as a result of the pandemic .
Many Pennsylvanians were already on the edge , and “ as soon as the virus hit , they were ready to file , ” said Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody ’s Analytics in West Chester , Pennsylvania , near Philadelphia .
As for next week , Pennsylvania is likely to post another outsize number .
The Central Penn Business Journal reported Thursday that nearly 650,000 claims have been filed since March 16 , almost 300,000 more than what was reported by the Labor Department .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

144 passengers and crew members have fallen ill aboard the stranded Holland America cruise so far, and a coronavirus test is still on the way .
2020-03-26 21:27:07 +00:00 .
CLAUDIO MONGE / AFP via Getty Images Sickness is spreading on the MS Zaandam , a stranded Holland America Line cruise ship , with 144 passengers and crew members falling ill , people aboard the ship told Business Insider .
Previously , the cruise line reported that 42 crew members and guests were exhibiting " influenza - like symptoms . "
Holland America has dispatched the MS Rotterdam to supply the Zaandam with COVID-19 testing kits and other medical supplies .
The Zaandam has been locked out of South American ports over coronavirus concerns .
The ship - tracking website Vessel Finder located the ship off the coast of Ecuador .
Are you a cruise ship passenger or employee with a story to share ?
Email acain@businessinsider.com .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
A total of 144 passengers and crew members have fallen ill aboard the MS Zaandam , a Holland America Line cruise ship stranded off the coast of South America , according to passengers on board .
Previously , the cruise line reported that 13 guests and 29 crew members were exhibiting " influenza - like symptoms . "
Now , passengers on board told Business Insider that the numbers have jumped to 86 crew members and 58 passengers .
Holland America did not immediately respond to Business Insider 's request for comment , although they did post an update to the line 's official Facebook page on March 24 .
The outbreak of illness has not yet been identified as COVID-19 , as the Zaandam does not have coronavirus testing capacity on board .
Holland America has dispatched the MS Rotterdam to supply the Zaandam with COVID-19 testing kits and other medical supplies .
" As all ports along Zaandam 's route are closed to cruise ships , Holland America Line has deployed Rotterdam to rendezvous with Zaandam and provide extra supplies , staff , COVID-19 test kits and other support as needed , " Holland America said in a statement posted on Facebook . "
Carrying 611 crew and no guests , Rotterdam departed Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , at 3 p.m. local time on March 22 and the current schedule is for the two ships to meet by the evening of March 26 off the coast of Panama . "
The cruise is currently located off the coast of Ecuador , according to the ship - tracking website Vessel Finder .
There are 1,243 guests and 586 crew members on board .
Passengers were confined to their state rooms on March 22 , with crew members relegated to delivering meals and collecting trash from each cabin .
But concerns over the ship 's sanitary measures have already arisen .
Australia 's 9 News published photos posted on Facebook of " crew members packed tightly together in a narrow corridor while collecting passengers ' meal trays . "
The cruise on the Zaandam was scheduled to last 14 days , embarking from Buenos Aires , Argentina , on March 7 and set to end in San Antonio , Chile , this past Saturday .
Those plans were diverted because of the coronavirus pandemic , and the cruise ship rerouted its course to sail north to an undetermined destination .
Currently , the ship is attempting to secure " a reservation to transit the Panama Canal " with the intention of sailing up to Fort Lauderdale , Florida for a March 30 arrival .
The Panama Canal Authority declined to comment about whether or not the ship will be permitted to sail through the canal , and the US Embassy in Panama did not respond to Business Insider 's request for comment .
Are you a cruise ship passenger or employee with a story to share ?
Email acain@businessinsider.com .
Read the original article on Business Insider

High-Grade Bond Funds Shed $38 Billion, Extending Record Exodus .
2020-03-26 21:16:07 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
U.S. corporate investment - grade funds reported a record $ 38 billion outflow , extending an unprecedented rout as investors flee for havens assets amid the global market meltdown .
That exceeds the prior record of $ 35.6 billion set just last week as the selloff from the spreading coronavirus intensified .
Fund outflows had been expected to ease after credit markets rallied in line with equities as a $ 2 trillion relief bill moved its way through Congress , following news that the Federal Reserve would buy corporate bonds .
Yield premiums dropped as ETF flows turned positive .
Investors also pulled a record $ 13.7 billion out of municipal - bond mutual funds in the week ended Wednesday , surpassing the record $ 12.2 billion exodus a week earlier , as the market reeled from its biggest losses in at least four decades .
”
The flows are not surprising as fear had been the pervasive sentiment , ” said Steven Oh global head of credit and fixed - income at PineBridge .
“ Liquidity preservation was the goal , hence the outflows . ”
Funds that buy junk bonds lost $ 2 billion in the five business days ended March 25 , while leveraged loan investors also withdrew about $ 2.1 billion .
That compared to a $ 2.9 billion outflow from high - yield bond funds in the five business days ended March 18 , and about $ 3.5 billion out of leveraged loans .
This week ’s withdrawals of more than $ 42 billion beat last week ’s $ 41.9 billion total outflow from all types of bonds and loans , making it the largest ever , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
The previous three weeks had each set a record for the largest total outflow from U.S. credit funds .
Meanwhile , high - grade corporate debt issuers are set to sell the most bonds ever in a week .
Companies announced $ 35.45 billion worth of new debt sales today , bringing this week ’s tally to a staggering $ 98.35 billion , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
That far outstrips the prior weekly record of $ 74.9 billion in the first week of September .
“ There ’s a lot of momentum around the Fed facilities and the stimulus bill , but that does n’t take away all of the negative numbers that are yet to come , ” said Erin Lyons , U.S. credit strategist at CreditSights in a telephone interview .
“ We are okay for another week or two
but then we could see some more selling as more of the economic data and earnings numbers start to come out . ”
( Adds detail on other fixed - income funds , issuance )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Coronavirus: UK death toll rises by 115 to 578 in biggest daily increase .
2020-03-26 18:56:56 +00:00 .
The number of coronavirus deaths in the UK has risen to 578 .
It ’s a jump of 115 from Wednesday 's death toll of 463 : the biggest daily increase since the first death on March 5 .
The previous biggest increase was 87 , on Tuesday .
Meanwhile , the Department of Health said 11,658 people had tested positive in the UK as of 9 am on Thursday .
Some 104,866 people have now been tested , with 93,208 negative results .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of COVID-19 cases in your local area
Explained : Symptoms , latest advice and how it compares to the flu
In a statement on Twitter , the Department of Health also said it was “ revising its reporting approach ” for announcing the latest coronavirus death toll each day .
The statement read : “ To ensure data can be verified and published in a timely , consistent way , we are moving to a new system for publication of deaths .
“ The latest figures counted from the previous day ( for a period from 5pm-5pm ) will be published at 2 pm the following day . ”
The department ’s announcements had previously been issued at varying times from day to day .
Thursday ’s death toll was announced as England ’s deputy chief medical officer defended not ordering coronavirus tests earlier .
Some 3.5 million antibody tests have now been ordered by the government .
Public Health England said on Wednesday they would be available in a matter of days , though this was played down by chief medical officer Prof Chris Whitty on Wednesday .
Dr Jenny Harries said at Thursday ’s coronavirus press briefing in Downing Street : “ I think what the public will recognise is this is a brand new event , it ’s a pandemic and every single country is ordering at the same time .
“ So I think this is not an issue of a lack of forethought in planning , it ’s an unprecedented event .
“ And it is a brand new virus so even to understand how you might test it you have to have the virus and understand a little bit about if before you can start . ”
Coronavirus : what happened today
Explainer : How to self - isolate

Xi Jinping urges ‘stronger international cooperation’ and quick action to fight coronavirus pandemic and stave off global recession .
2020-03-26 17:47:47 +00:00 .
Chinese President Xi Jinping has called for “ stronger international cooperation on all fronts ” to fight the Covid-19 pandemic as well as urgent action to stop a global economic recession , in his first major speech to an international audience since the start of the public health crisis .
Speaking in a videoconference with other Group of 20 leaders on Thursday , Xi urged unity and solidarity and delivered three main messages : strengthen international efforts to stop the virus ; shore up the economy amid downward trends ; and subtly call on the US to stop its hostile moves against China .
As nearly half a million people have been infected with the virus , Xi called for joint research and development of drugs and vaccines .
There are currently no cures or preventive medication for the virus .
“ At the most difficult moments for China , many members of the international community provided China with sincere help and support .
We would remember and value this friendship forever , ” Xi said .
“ We must comprehensively step up international cooperation and foster greater synergy so that humanity as one could win the battle against such a major infectious disease . ”
The Chinese leader also called for stronger economic measures to “ help prevent world economy from entering recession ” .
“ Powerful and effective financial and fiscal policies should be implemented , ” Xi said , calling for action to stabilise supply chains that have been severely disrupted for three months .
In a veiled swipe at US President Donald Trump ’s repeated references to Covid-19 as “ the Chinese virus ” , Xi told the G20 leaders , of which Trump is one : “ The virus knows no boundaries , and the pandemic is our common enemy .
All countries must join hands and put up the strictest network for joint prevention and joint control [ of the disease ] . ”
He also indirectly referred to the US ’ refusal to remove tariffs against Chinese goods as a result of Trump ’s trade war , promising to further relax restrictions on market access for foreign businesses – the subject of US and European complaints for years .
“ China will steadfastly expand reforms and opening up , widen market access , continuously perfect the business environment , expand imports and outbound investment , and contribute to global economic stability , ” Xi said .
He added : “ Members of G20 should adopt common policies to eliminate tariffs , remove trade barriers , facilitate trade and send a powerful message to boost morale to global economic recovery . ”
China has recorded the world ’s highest number of infections , with 81,869 cases .
Its 3,287 deaths is the world ’s third largest death toll after Italy and Spain .
More to follow …
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Xi Jinping urges ‘ stronger international cooperation ’ and quick action to fight coronavirus pandemic and stave off global recession first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

'All we have left is to hope and pray': Travellers stranded in airport by coronavirus .
2020-03-26 16:42:57 +00:00 .
By Poppy McPherson BANGKOK ( Reuters ) - Russian hostel manager Valerie Azure has spent the past three nights sleeping on the floor of a Malaysian airport along with her young son , after Southeast Asian nations sealed borders and cancelled flights in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic .
Azure , 31 , said more than a dozen people were stranded with her in the international airport in Kuala Lumpur , among hundreds marooned across the globe , according to media reports , as the virus plays havoc with travel plans .
After several weeks volunteering in a community centre for Afghan refugees in Malaysia , Azure said she and her nine - year - old son boarded an AirAsia flight for Thailand on Monday but were sent back after officials asked for blood tests proving they were free of the virus .
Malaysia has banned foreigners from entering since March 18 .
" They said ' you 're going to have to stay here ' .
We thought maybe they are not being serious , in the beginning , " Azure told Reuters via WhatsApp .
Azure said people from Vietnam , Pakistan , and the Philippines were stranded alongside her .
Airline staff bring them three meals a day of rice or noodles , and some water .
They sleep on makeshift beds fashioned from cardboard and fabric .
Azure , who has lived in Thailand for the past seven years and runs a hostel on Koh Tao island , said she can not afford to buy a $ 3,000 ticket to Russia , where she has no friends or family .
They were planning to stay until the end of Malaysia 's ban on foreign entries , on March 31 , but it has since been extended until April 14 .
The Russian embassy told her they may be taken to an immigration detention centre , she said .
TAKEN CARE OF
A Malaysian airport spokeswoman said AirAsia had informed them Azure was working with her embassy to find a solution .
" Please be rest assured that AirAsia is taking good care of their welfare and providing them sufficient meals during this difficult period , " she said .
An AirAsia spokesperson said the safety and well being of guests and staff was its priority , but recommended any stranded travelers contact their embassies as the matter was " outside the airline 's control " .
" AirAsia remains fully compliant with all travel bans and restrictions in place resulting from the COVID-19 outbreak .
We continue to do everything possible to assist every guest affected by disruption during this unprecedented situation , " the spokesperson said in an emailed statement .
Immigration department director - general Khairul Dzaimee Daud said in a text message they were looking into the case .
Azure said her son had been despondent since security officials confiscated his only toy , a ball .
" They said ' This is an airport and not a playground ' .
It was his only entertainment …
Now he 's just sitting there , I 'm trying to keep him busy , to play games . "
She worries about them falling sick in the airport .
" I do n't know how safe it is …
All we have left is just to hope and pray .
"
( This story has been refiled to fix typo in paragraph 12 )
( Reporting by Poppy McPherson .
Additional reporting by Rozanna Latiff ;
Editing by Gareth Jones and Alex Richardson )

Singapore Airlines halts trading in shares ahead of announcement .
2020-03-26 06:20:26 +00:00 .
Singapore Airlines ( SIA ) halted trading in its shares on Singapore ’s stock exchange on Thursday morning pending an announcement , days after grounding most of its aircraft and saying it was seeking refinancing to shore up its weakened balance sheet .
The airline on Monday said travel bans due to the Covid-19 pandemic raging across the world and subsequent collapse in demand for flights posed the “ greatest challenge that the SIA Group has faced in its existence . ”
Tourists wearing surgical masks walk through the Jewel Changi Airport mall in Singapore , 23 March 2020 .
Photo : EPA - EFE
More SIA shares on Monday fell to a 21 - year low of S$5.35 ( US$ 3.70 ) but on Wednesday jumped more than 10 per cent to $ 6.50 .
At the start of the year , the company ’s shares traded at S$9.11 .
The last time SIA suspended trading in its shares was in 2015 on November 6 when it launched a full takeover of budget carrier Tigerair , which is now known as Scoot .
Singapore ’s Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat is expected to announce off - budget financial stimulus measures this afternoon to support the city state ’s trade and export - dependent economy , as well as workers and households .
This comes after an earlier US$ 4.6 billion boost announced last month during the budget .
Earlier on Thursday , the Ministry of Trade and Industry downgraded its GDP forecast for the year after the economy contracted the most in a decade in the first quarter .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Singapore Airlines halts trading in shares ahead of announcement first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Coronavirus: New York Governor Andrew Cuomo says early signs show social distancing may be working .
2020-03-26 03:19:51 +00:00 .
Stringent density control measures may be working to contain the coronavirus in New York state , the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak in the US , as the rate of hospitalisation shows early signs of abating , Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Wednesday .
New York , which has 19 million residents and nearly 31,000 infections , now accounts for 56 per cent of the confirmed cases in the country and more than 7 per cent of world ’s total .
Cuomo had ordered all but essential businesses to shutter by Sunday evening and residents to limit their outdoor activities and practice social distancing , effectively putting the state on pause .
On Tuesday , the number of hospitalised patients had doubled every 4.7 days , slowing from the rate of every 3.4 days on Monday and every two days on Sunday , Cuomo said at his daily coronavirus briefing on Wednesday .
“ This is a very positive sign , ” he said .
“ The arrows are heading into the right direction . ”
Cuomo said the slowing pace was “ almost too good to be true , ” adding that one explanation might be that “ given the density we are dealing with , it spreads very quickly , and it shrinks very quickly ” .
Though preliminary , the early data offered a glimpse of much - needed hope for New York , where the virus has spread five times faster than the rest of the country .
If the pattern holds , it may also provide evidence of the efficacy of social distancing for other states to combat the pandemic that has infected more than 60,000 and killed more than 800 people in the US .
New York ’s death toll is 285 .
Cuomo ’s briefing came a day after federal officials , concerned about New York City ’s growing number of cases , urged anyone leaving the city to quarantine themselves for 14 days after travelling somewhere else .
The governor also announced new restrictions to address continued density problems , including closing some New York City streets to reduce crowding in parks .
The state will also ban close contact sports such as basketball in parks .
“ Right now , we are asking people to do this voluntarily , ” said Cuomo .
“ If there is no compliance , we will close playgrounds , which is something we do n’t want to do . ”
As of Wednesday morning , New York State had 30,811 confirmed cases , with 5,146 new ones overnight .
New York City ’s total cases reached 14,856 , a daily addition of 2,952 .
In other positive news , Cuomo said the state had enough personal protective equipment – masks and medical gowns – for the time being after Tuesday ’s delivery .
“ Today no doctors and nurses can say they do n’t have supplies , ” he said .
“ But it does n’t mean we might not run into problems in five weeks , so we are still shopping . ”
Ventilators remain the biggest challenge .
After the federal government shipped 4,000 of them to New York on Tuesday , the state still faces a shortage as the apex of the outbreak is expected to hit in about three weeks .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : New York Governor Andrew Cuomo says early signs show social distancing may be working first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Fact check: Not true that no Democrats voted for coronavirus stimulus package .
2020-03-26 02:05:51 +00:00 .
The claim : A meme claims that no Democrats voted in favor of a coronavirus stimulus package
A meme that went viral on Facebook states : " Not ONE DEMOCRAT , not ONE ... voted for the Stimulus package .
" It was posted late on March 22 .
USA TODAY has reached out to the Facebook user who posted the meme and has yet to hear from him .
Senate votes
Let 's look at what votes had occurred on coronavirus - related legislation at that time .
That evening , the Senate was stalled on a coronavirus economic stimulus bill , failing to pass an initial procedural hurdle by a 47 - 47 party - line vote .
The motion needed the votes of at least three - fifths of the full Senate , or 60 votes .
The vote at hand is called cloture – a procedural vote to move forward with debate on an under - discussion stimulus package and toward a yea or nay for final approval .
Speaking on the Senate floor before the March 22 vote , Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell suggested the final bill was not yet ready , saying “ discussions continue on the package . ”
McConnell , R - Ky. , set up a vote anyway , one that was doomed to fail without Democratic support .
His effort was also hurt by the absence of five Republican senators who were self - quarantining .
The cloture vote came up again on March 23 , and failed 49 - 46 , with Democratic Sen. Doug Jones of Alabama voting to move the stimulus package forward .
Days of bipartisan negotiations followed those votes , leading to the $ 2 trillion economic stimulus package working its way through Congress on March 25 .
Earlier coronavirus votes in Congress
Before debate over stimulus packages , Congress passed , and President Donald Trump signed , two bills aimed at coronavirus relief .
A funding bill , the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act , was introduced in the House on March 4 , passing 415 - 2 , with Republicans voting against it .
It quickly moved to the Senate , where it was approved a day later by a 96 - 1 vote , with only Republican Sen. Rand Paul voting nay .
Trump signed the bill on March 6 .
The Families First Coronavirus Response Act was adopted 363 - 40 , with every House Democrat and most Republicans voting in favor of the measure on March 14 .
The vote was conducted following two days of around - the - clock negotiations between Democratic leaders and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin .
The Senate adopted the measure , 90 - 8 , on March 18 , with all Democrats voting yes .
Trump signed the bill into law the same day .
Our ruling : False
The claim put forth on March 22 that no Democrats had voted in favor of a coronavirus stimulus package is FALSE , based on our research .
Votes on March 22 - 23 in the Senate that drew Democratic nays were procedural in nature and were not a vote on the package itself , which was still being drafted – no formal bill existed .
At this time , the stimulus bill had not come up for final approval in Congress .
Our fact - checking sources : This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Fact check : Did Democrats vote for the coronavirus stimulus package ?

Buy Lululemon Stock Ahead of Q4 Earnings After Nike's Strong Showing? .
2020-03-26 01:06:21 +00:00 .
Lululemon LULU joined Nike NKE , Apple AAPL , and other retailers when it closed many of its stores due to the coronavirus .
But Nike stock soared over 10 % after its reported solid quarterly results on Tuesday .
So should investors think about buying LULU stock with the yoga apparel giant set to report its Q4 fiscal 2019 results after the closing bell on Thursday , March 26 ?
Quick Nike Recap Nike topped our Q3 fiscal 2020 earnings estimates on Tuesday , despite the coronavirus impact .
The sportswear powerhouse said that its business in the world ’s second largest economy has started to rebound as things slowly return to normal in China .
NKE executives also said that its growing digital business helped fill some of the void created by store closures in China .
“ We are seeing the other side of the crisis in China , ” CEO John Donahoe said on Nike ’s earnings call .
“ And due to the resilience and creativity of our team in China , we now have a playbook that we can use elsewhere . ”
Nike stock fell over 7 % on Monday heading into its earnings release to hover near $ 62 per share .
This downturn was part of a larger 35 % decline over the last month that saw Nike trading where it was in late 2017 .
Then the stock soared a total of 25 % during the next two days to close regular trading Wednesday at $ 79.01 a share .
LULU
Lululemon is an athleisure giant that has rewarded investors and forced everyone from Gap GPS to Target TGT to roll out their own athleisure brands and styles .
Along with its successful women ’s offerings , LULU has pushed further into outwear and hopes to compete against Canada Goose GOOS and The North Face VFC .
Lululemon also sells far more work - appropriate clothing , self - care products , and more .
On top of that , executives expect to double the size of its menswear business by 2023 .
LULU also hopes to more than double its digital revenue and quadruple its international sales , which includes a big push in Asia
Luckily , given the current events , Lululemon ’s footprint in Asia remains small today .
But things have changed quickly for LULU .
The company closed all stores in North America and Europe starting on March 16 , with tentative plans to reopen on March 28 — though that seems unlikely given the current coronavirus situation .
Like Nike and all other retailers , Lululemon ’s growing digital business remains open .
Plus , LULU stock has soared over 40 % since March 16 , from $ 138.98 a share to Wednesday ’s closing price of $ 193.62 a share .
Despite the climb , LULU stock rests over 25 % below its 52 - week highs , which could give it more room to run .
Bottom Line
Our current Zacks Estimates call for Lululemon ’s Q4 sales to jump 18.4 % to reach $ 1.38 billion .
This would mark the slowest growth of 2019 , after its revenue climbed over 20 % in the trailing three quarters .
On the bottom end of the income statement , LULU ’s adjusted earnings are projected jump 21.6 % to touch $ 2.25 a share .
The firm ’s fourth quarter EPS estimate has remained unchanged and it has topped our quarterly estimates in the trailing four periods .
That said , some risk - taking investors might want to take a chance on Lululemon heading into earnings , especially after Nike ’s report impressed Wall Street .
But LULU is much smaller than Nike and the closure of its key North American stores wo n’t show up until its next report , which could hurt its guidance .

Goodwood to host virtual 78MM Members’ Meeting .
2020-03-25 22:24:54 +00:00 .
The annual Goodwood Members ’ Meeting was due to take place this weekend ( 28th and 29th March 2020 ) before the coronavirus crisis took full effect .
Now , with the event postponed , Goodwood will put on a virtual show in its place .
There will be a live stream between 10 am and 6 pm , both on Saturday and Sunday .
This will include a selection of six demonstrations and 17 races from past events that will be streamed ‘ live ’ .
As with other Goodwood events , interaction is encouraged on social media .
You can tweet and comment on Instagram and Facebook with the hashtag ‘ # 78 mm ’ .
There will also be a live blog running to accompany the action .
Goodwood rerun live stream for 78MM
More
As it ’s a compilation of sorts , the Goodwood team has the unique opportunity to try to please everyone .
They say they have ‘ struck the right balance of excellent action for all tastes ’ .
The team will also take recommendations , if there ’s a race you want to see you see included .
The 78th Members ’ Meeting is due to take place at a later date .
Whether the Goodwood Festival of Speed and Revival will be affected by the pandemic remains to be confirmed .
For motorsport in general , Motorsport UK today extended its suspension of permits to 30 June .
Goodwood rerun live stream for 78MM
More “ Motorsport UK has a vital role to play with its community in re - inforcing that , at this time of national emergency , we must all stay at home to play our part in protecting the NHS and ultimately saving lives , ” said Motorsport UK chairman , David Richards .
“ Today , the government have required that we effectively lock - down for a period of three weeks .
However given that the most vulnerable in our society are required to isolate for three months , it is evident that the most responsible course of action was to propose a longer suspension of our sport .
“ When we reflect back on this time , it will be a brief , but vital , hiatus from our everyday motorsport life and we must put this in perspective .
This is a time of national unity and we need to come together with the broader public community to do all we can to support this battle and ultimately save lives . ”
The post Goodwood to host virtual 78MM Members ’ Meeting appeared first on Motoring Research .

Anthony Joshua self-isolating after news Prince Charles has coronavirus .
2020-03-25 22:12:01 +00:00 .
Heavyweight world champion Anthony Joshua is at home in self - isolation after the news that Prince Charles has contracted coronavirus , with the two meeting 16 days ago at Westminster Abbey .
Joshua was in attendance at the Commonwealth Day service on 9 March alongside Prince Charles , 71 , as well as The Queen , and a spokesman for the British boxer confirmed that he is “ fit and well ” while remaining at home following the UK government ’s coronavirus lockdown .
It was announced on Wednesday morning that the Prince of Wales had become the highest member of the British establishment to test positive for coronavirus , with Clarence House confirming that he had shown mild symptoms “ but otherwise remains in good health ” .
Thirty - year - old Joshua is due to fight Bulgarin Kubrat Pulev on 20 June , although the fight had a provisional second date already planned on 25 July due to the uncertainty surrounding the coronavirus crisis .
An official spokesman said that Joshua has not shown any signs of coronavirus and has spent this week self - isolating at home regardless due to the government ’s enforced lockdown .
“ AJ is at home following government guidelines , he is fit and well , ” a spokesman said .
“ He wishes everyone affected a speedy recovery and a huge thank you to all the front line key workers . ”
The British Boxing Board of Control this week extended their ban on all boxing events until the end of April , and while Joshua ’s bout at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium falls outside of that period of suspension , promoter Eddie Hearn admitted that there is no guarantee of the fight going ahead on 20 June .
A decision to postpone the fight is expected to come as early as this week , with Tyson Fury ’s WBC heavyweight title defence against Deontay Wilder scheduled for 18 July also looking likely to be delayed .
As a result of the uncertainty , talks immediately began between Hearn and Tottenham to organise a second provisional date on 25 July , which would give the UK an additional month to deal with the coronavirus outbreak and return everyday life closer to normality , which will need to be require for the fight to go ahead at all given the medical personnel required to be at a professional boxing event .
Read more
How to help the elderly and vulnerable during the coronavirus
How to feel less anxious about the coronavirus
How to be productive when working from home during coronavirus
Which countries around the world has coronavirus spread to ?
The dirty truth about washing your hands

U.S. Automakers to Extend Production Shutdown into April .
2020-03-25 16:48:57 +00:00 .
From Car and Driver Fiat Chrysler , Ford , and General Motors are extending their factory shutdowns until April , according to a report from Reuters .
The shutdown was originally supposed to last until March 30 .
Two FCA factory workers have died from COVID-19 .
The Detroit Three are going to extend their factory shutdowns into April , according to a report from Reuters citing people familiar with the matter .
Ford , Fiat Chrysler , and General Motors had originally planned on reopening their plants next Monday , March 30 , but the remaining threat of COVID-19 is forcing the automakers to reconsider .
Currently , Ford is the only one of the three to publicly declare that the shutdown will be extended , although that announcement did n’t include when the plants would be running again .
According to Reuters , Ford is n't planning to restart production until April 6 .
The automakers first made public that they would be suspending production at their plants on March 18 following pressure from the United Auto Workers .
In a letter to members , UAW President Rory Gamble said that FCA has said that they wo n’t be reopening on March 30 .
GM is yet to make any sort of announcement .
On March 23 , Michigan Governor Gretchen Whiter announced a stay - at - home order for Michigan residents , which banned nonessential business .
The order goes at least until April 13 , and it is unclear if the ban includes auto plants .
There have been two FCA employees , who were also UAW members , die from COVID-19 .
They were both plant workers ; one worked at a factory in Kokomo , Indiana , and the other in Sterling Heights , Michigan .
You
Might Also
Like

IRS unveils new details about Tax Day after extending deadline to July 15 .
2020-03-25 15:59:41 +00:00 .
Get the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox .
Sign up here
The Internal Revenue Service issued new guidance for taxpayers after the historic decision last week to extend the filing and payment deadline from April 15 to July 15 as a result of the coronavirus pandemic .
The decision gives Americans three months longer than they typically would have to file their taxes as the coronavirus pandemic forces large swaths of the economy to shut down , threatening to push it into a recession that rivals the 2008 financial crisis .
IRS PREPARES CORONAVIRUS PLAN B FOR 2019 NON - FILERS
By extending the deadline , the federal government is allowing individuals and businesses to hold onto their cash longer as they deal with the fallout from the outbreak of the virus .
Early estimates suggest that at least one million Americans could lose their jobs in March alone because of COVID-19 , the disease caused by the novel coronavirus .
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION MOVES TAX FILING DAY TO JULY 15 , MNUCHIN SAYS Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle argued that extending the filing deadline was necessary in order to minimize confusion for taxpayers and ensure that people could receive the help they needed to file .
HOW TO FILE FOR UNEMPLOYMENT AS CORONAVIRUS JOB LOSSES MOUNT
But the announcement offered few details about the specifics of the new deadline .
Here ’s everything you need to know : I already filed my 2019 income tax return and scheduled a payment of taxes for April 15 .
Will the IRS automatically delay this payment until July 15 ?
No , but taxpayers can take action to reschedule or cancel their payment .
Many taxpayers who authorize an electronic funds withdrawal when filing their returns can contact the U.S. Treasury Department at 888 - 353 - 4537 , but must do so at least two business days before the scheduled payment is due .
If you used IRS Direct Pay or the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System ( EFTPS ) , you may also cancel the payment , but must do so two days before the payment date : For IRS Direct Pay , use the Look Up a Payment Feature .
For EFTPS , log in and click on Cancel a Tax Payment .
Taxpayers who scheduled an automatic payment by credit or debit card should contact the company to change the payment date .
Does this extension apply to state tax liabilities ?
No .
State filing and payment deadlines vary , although a number of them have mimicked the federal government and pushed the date until July 15 .
Check with your state tax agencies for additional details .
Do I have to file a special form to use the July 15 deadline ?
No .
If you file a return or an automatic extension request and pay by July 15 , no interest or penalties will be due .
If you expect a refund , you are encouraged to file your return as soon as you can so that you can receive your refund .
Do I have to be infected with the coronavirus or quarantined to use the new deadlines ?
No .
I owe a 10 percent additional tax on a withdrawal I took from a retirement account last year .
Is that payment also delayed until July 15 ?
Yes .
This payment has been extended to July 15 as a result of the relief .
What does n’t qualify for the IRS ’s three - month relief plan ?
Normal filing and payment due dates continue to apply to estate and gift taxes .
First - quarter estimated tax payments are now due on July 15 .
Are second - quarter payments still due on June 15
Yes , second - quarter estimated income tax payments are still due on June 15 .
Are deadlines to contribute to an Individual Retirement Account , Roth IRA or Health Savings Account also extended ?
Yes .
Related Articles

Fact check: Year-old claim about Tony Evers, gun confiscation resurfaces .
2020-03-25 15:46:57 +00:00 .
The claim : Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers is pushing firearm confiscation orders
A year - old claim about Gov. Tony Evers and firearm confiscation is getting new life online amid the coronavirus pandemic .
Many on Facebook have recently picked up a story from April 2019 headlined “ Wisconsin gov . pushing firearm confiscation orders . ”
Misleading posting
When shared , no date for the story is visible on Facebook .
The new life and lack of date gives this claim a very different ring amid the flurry of executive orders by Evers .
The first - term Democrat has taken a series of dramatic steps to limit activity in Wisconsin as he and officials across the country take steps to contain the spread of coronavirus .
His latest “ Safe at Home ” order , issued March 24 , closed nonessential businesses and gathering places until April 24 .
But none of those orders deals with gun confiscations .
The headline was misleading in 2019 .
Surfaced a year later , it ’s downright ridiculous .
Missing proof
The article , from a website called Steadfast and Loyal , describes Evers as “ attacking the Second Amendment . ”
But it offers zero proof for that claim or the headline reference to the governor “ pushing firearm confiscation orders . ”
Instead it pastes in a series of paragraphs from a similarly headlined story from far - right Breitbart news , published back in January 2019 .
But neither story actually details Evers proposing any such thing .
The Brietbart story — as quoted by Steadfast and Loyal — refers to a WISN - TV story about Attorney General Josh Kaul , a Democrat , calling for red flag laws during his inaugural address .
We will note , though the stories did n’t , that Evers had generally voiced support for Kaul ’s plan in January 2019 .
Defining red flag laws
But there ’s a huge difference between red flag laws and the widespread gun seizures implied by this headline .
Red flag laws provide a mechanism — with a judge ’s approval — to take guns from people exhibiting dangerous behavior before they harm themselves or others .
Evers later proposed a red flag law in Wisconsin .
He called a special session of the Legislature in November 2019 to consider proposals for a red flag law and universal background checks , but Republicans who control the Assembly and Senate immediately closed the session without action .
So at the time this year - old story first posted , Evers had n't yet proposed a red flag law .
And at the time it is circulating now , his proposal has already been rejected .
Most importantly , red flag laws are a far cry from the implication this headline gives of some form of widespread gun confiscation .
Our ruling : False
We rate this claim as False , based on our research .
The story 's headline implies widespread gun seizures .
The gun control issue that is actually discussed is a proposal for red flag laws , which were not mentioned .
Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers proposed a red flag law , and it was rejected .
Our fact - check sources : Steadfast and Loyal , Wisconsin ’s gov .
pushing firearm confiscation orders , April 1 , 2019
Breitbart.com , Wisconsin 's ’ Democratic gov .
Pushing firearm confiscation orders , January 14 , 2019
WISN - TV , Wisconsin 's new AG calls for red flag gun law , Jan. 8 , 2019
PolitiFact Wisconsin , Wisconsin Assembly Speaker 's new take on red - flag gun laws still misses target , Dec. 6 , 2019
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Fact check : Is Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers confiscating guns ?

The UK may have left it 'too late' to impose a coronavirus lockdown and stop millions of people getting COVID-19 .
2020-03-25 13:42:37 +00:00 .
Reuters
The UK needs to ' radically change direction ' and start doing far more tests for possible cases of the coronavirus , according to the former health secretary Jeremy Hunt .
Boris Johnson announced strict new lockdown measures on Monday , meaning people are only allowed to leave their homes to pick up essential supplies and exercise once a day .
But Hunt , speaking before the lockdown was announced , said the UK needed to introduce testing as well as new social distancing rules , warning that up to a million people could be infected by the end of next week and said the UK lockdown may be " too late . "
He said : ' How can we possibly suppress the virus if we do not know where it is ? '
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
The UK government may have left it " too late " to impose its national coronavirus lockdown , with around one million people likely already infected by next week , the UK 's former health secretary has warned .
Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday evening announced a strict national lockdown , which means people are only allowed to leave their homes to buy essential supplies and to exercise once a day .
Johnson hopes the measures will slow the spread of the disease in the UK , where there were 6,650 confirmed cases and 335 deaths as of Monday 23 March .
But Jeremy Hunt , who served as health secretary for six years until 2018 , told the House of Commons on Monday , shortly before the new measures were announced , that so - called " social distancing " measures alone would not be enough to contain the disease .
And in a stark warning , Hunt warned that it may be " too late " to prevent the UK following the same trajectory as Italy , which has recorded a death toll over over 6,000 to date , but he said the lockdown measures introduced by Boris Johnson shortly afterwards were the only ones which gave Britain " any chance at all of doing so . "
Hunt said the government 's decision to stop testing so - called community cases — those people who have not been admitted to hospital — should be reversed , and urged the government to follow the example of countries including South Korea and Singapore .
Those countries have pursued an aggressive strategy of testing larger numbers of suspected coronavirus carriers than the UK , then isolating individual cases and tracing everyone they had been in contact with .
" Ten days ago in this country , we went in the opposite direction , and stopped testing in the community , " he said .
" How can we possibly suppress the virus if we do not know where it is ?
So far , we have had 281 deaths , tragically .
" According to the modellers , there is about one death per 1,000 cases , which means that we have just under 300,000 cases in this country .
" According to the same modellers , the number of cases is doubling every five days , which means that at the end of next week we will have about 1 million cases or more in this country .
Unless we radically change direction , we will not know where those 1 million cases are . "
The more aggressive testing strategies appear to have been highly successful to date .
In South Korea and Singapore , just two people in each country have died after testing positive for the disease , while in the UK , there have been 281 deaths so far .
Announcing the new lockdown measures on Monday evening , Boris Johnson said people would for at least three weeks be allowed to leave their homes only for " very limited purposes , " which include shopping for essentials , collecting medicine , exercising once a day , and travelling to and from work where it was not possible to work at home .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Harvard University's president and his wife have tested positive for the coronavirus .
2020-03-25 12:28:43 +00:00 .
Paul Marotta / Getty Images
The president of Harvard University , Lawrence Bacow , and his wife , Adele Fleet Bacow , have both tested positive for the novel coronavirus , Lawrence Bacow said Tuesday .
Lawrence Bacow said in a statement that they had been social distancing since March 14 , one day after the first coronavirus case was confirmed on campus .
For seniors at the elite university , and those across the US , the coronavirus crisis has cut short a cherished time of the school year : the last days before graduation .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Harvard University President Lawrence Bacow and his wife , Adele Fleet Bacow , have tested positive for the coronavirus , he announced Tuesday .
The news comes just two weeks after the university shuttered classes and ordered students to leave campus .
Days ago , it postponed commencement .
" Earlier today , Adele and I learned that we tested positive for COVID-19 , " Bacow wrote .
" We started experiencing symptoms on Sunday — first coughs then fevers , chills , and muscle aches — and contacted our doctors on Monday .
"
The first coronavirus case on Harvard 's campus was confirmed on March 13 .
A second " presumptive positive case " was discovered three days later .
The couple began social distancing on March 14 , according to the letter .
" The good news — if there is any to be had — is that far fewer people crossed our paths recently than is usually the case , " Lawrence Bacow wrote .
" This virus can lay anyone low .
We all need to be vigilant and keep following guidelines to limit our contact with others , " he continued .
" I hope to see as few of you in our situation as possible , and I urge you to continue following the guidance of public health experts and the advice and orders of our government officials . "
As of Monday , there were at least 777 confirmed COVID-19 cases in Massachusetts , including nine deaths , local media reported .
With the Bacows ' announcement , the state now has at least 779 positive cases .
College seniors said goodbye early
Around this time , fourth - year students are typically found scrambling to submit their capstone and thesis projects before the full bloom of spring .
But this year , seniors have had their final semester , and its attendant last hurrahs , cut short .
" COVID-19 was meant to produce social - distancing measures , " wrote Julie Chung , a Harvard senior , in a recent Harvard Magazine op - ed .
" Instead , it brought the students closer . "
In the week before Harvard shut down , Chung wrote , students hosted " no shortage of parties and gatherings " while trying to keep groups to under 25 students .
" Holding my roommates ' hands in our common room , I cried because there was no time to cry — because I wanted to have pure joy , just joy , without feeling the desperation and loss that had been twisted into our time remaining together on campus , " Chung wrote .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Policeman jailed for filching cash from lost wallets .
2020-03-25 12:04:00 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE — A policeman attached to a neighbourhood police centre pocketed a total of $ 207 from three lost wallets , a court heard .
At the State Courts on Wednesday ( 25 March ) , the errant cop Isaac Lim Jun Cheng , 24 , was jailed for three months after he pleaded guilty to one charge of criminal breach of trust as an employee .
Lim was attached to the Pasir Ris Neighbourhood Police Centre .
On 18 November 2018 , a woman reported the loss of her wallet contain $ 180 , among other things .
She had last seen the wallet while having lunch with a friend at Changi Village Hawker Centre two days earlier .
Unknown to her , a passer - by later found the wallet and passed it to a drinks stall owner .
He looked at the NRIC in the wallet and recognised the woman as a regular customer of his .
He kept the wallet with the intention to return it to her when he saw her .
Later , he passed it to his son who went to the woman ’s house , but no one was home .
On 26 November 2018 , the drinks stall owner brought the wallet to the neighbourhood police centre .
Lim attended to the man and told him that he could leave the wallet with him .
Afterwards , Lim pocketed the cash inside the wallet .
He did n’t lodge a report to document receiving the wallet like he was supposed to .
The errant cop then called the owner of the wallet and told her that it had been found .
When she realised that her money was missing , she asked Lim about it .
But he lied that the wallet had been found by the roadside , so that she would n’t suspect him of taking the cash .
Later , the woman bumped into the drinks stall owner at the hawker centre .
He brought up the topic of her wallet and she told him about the missing money .
He then told her that he had seen cash inside the wallet when he handed it over to the police .
On 1 January last year , the woman made a police report about the missing cash .
Investigations further revealed that on 11 June and 11 August 2018 , Lim had also taken cash from two other wallets handed over to him at the neighbourhood police centre involving a total of at least $ 27 .
On both occasions , he lodged reports to document the receipt of the wallets but omitted to mention the cash in the wallets .
Lim spent the $ 207 he wrongfully pocketed on personal expenses .
He has been suspended from duty since January last year .
The maximum punishment for criminal breach of trust as an employee is up to 15 years ’ jail along with a fine .
Other Singapore stories : Lawrence Wong breaks down while paying tribute to ' unsung heroes ' fighting COVID-19 COVID-19 : Public can inform police about those who breach stay - home notice – Shanmugam COVID-19 : No decision has been made on timing of next GE – Teo Chee Hean COVID-19 : Singapore conducts 6,800 tests per million people , higher rate than S Korea , Taiwan – Gan Kim Yong

‘One last time’: Virgin flight attendant’s emotional speech as thousands are stood down amid pandemic .
2020-03-25 10:28:46 +00:00 .
A flight attendant has brought people to tears amid the coronavirus outbreak grounding thousands of airline staff .
Cassy , who was on board a Virgin Australia flight in New Zealand , made a speech following her on board safety announcement to passengers on Tuesday .
Video of her on board address was shared by Virgin Australia on Twitter .
“ Finally , I 'd like to just say that there 's every chance possible that this can be our last operating flight and most certainly is the last for the foreseeable future , " Cassy says .
" As crew we 've called the skies our home for so long it 's a little surreal knowing we 've come back down to earth one last time .
" On behalf of the entire Virgin Australia team , we wish you all the best during these testing times .
Please take care of yourselves , your neighbours and stay safe . "
She says she ’s proud of her crew and how they continue to hold their heads high .
“ Remember that tough times do n't last , tough people do , " she says .
On Twitter , people called Cassy ’s message “ inspiring ” .
“ Tremendously brave , well done , ” one man tweeted .
Another called her message “ heartbreaking ” .
“ Beautiful .
That made me cry .
I hope that when this is all over , we see you in the air again , ” one woman tweeted .
Thousands of Virgin staff grounded
Cassy is among the thousands of Virgin Australia staff stood down in the wake of the coronavirus border restrictions .
In total , 8000 of its 10000 staff have been let go until at least the end of May.
New Zealand has shut down its borders along with Queensland , South Australia , Tasmania , Western Australia and the Northern Territory .
Prime Minister Scott Morrison has also introduced travel bans for Aussies looking to go overseas .
The airline on Wednesday said its domestic schedule would now be cut by 90 per cent , from last week 's 50 per cent reduction and it would also suspend all flights of its low - cost Tigerair Australia service .
Virgin said it would try and redeploy workers and encourage them to use leave , but leave without pay would be inevitable for many .
A passenger at Brisbane Domestic Airport on Wednesday .
Source : AAP
More
Most domestic flights will be suspended from March 27 until June 14 , while its previously announced international ban will be in place from March 30 to June 14 .
The remaining domestic flights will provide essential services , such as carrying critical freight .
Virgin 's move comes after most states imposed restrictions on people crossing their borders .
The rules aim to further limit movement and control the spread of the virus .
People travelling for work and medical reasons will be allowed to cross borders .
" We are now facing what will be the biggest grounding of aircraft in this country 's history , " Virgin Australia chief executive Paul Scurrah said .
More than 125 planes in the Virgin fleet will be grounded from the end of this week .
The business is also discussing closing its New Zealand cabin crew and pilot base , and its Tigerair Australia Melbourne pilot base .
A strict travel ban has been put in place for Australians as of midnight Wednesday .
Source : AAP
More Story continues
Virgin 's announcement follows a decision by rival Qantas last week to stand down two - thirds of its 30,000 workforce as it slashed capacity .
Qantas said on Wednesday it had secured $ 1.05 billion of funding against its aircraft fleet to help strengthen its financial position as it grapples with a plunge in demand due to the coronavirus pandemic .
with AAP and Reuters
Do you have a story tip ?
Email :
newsroomau@yahoonews.com .
You can also follow us on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play .

Coronavirus: Elton John 'loving every second' of lockdown with his family .
2020-03-25 09:38:30 +00:00 .
Sir Elton John has declared he is “ loving every second ” of lockdown - as it is giving him rare quality time with his family .
The 72 - year - old singer - who is father to sons Elijah , seven , and Zachary , nine , with husband David Furnish - had been on his Farewell Yellow Brick Road world tour since September 2018 , but is now following quarantine advice amid the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic .
Elton told Zane Lowe on Apple Music : “ This is the time where people are going to spend more time with their families than they 've ever done before .
And so far , again , check with me in two weeks .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of COVID-19 cases in your local area
Explained : Symptoms , latest advice and how it compares to the flu
“ I 'm enjoying it so much because I do n't spend that much time with my family during the day
and I 'm loving every second of it .
So cherish it while you can .
Every cloud has a silver lining . ”
The I ’m Still Standing singer revealed he and his family have been spending their time playing Snakes and Ladders and enjoying each other ’s company .
David Furnish and Elton John with sons Elijah and Zachary in 2018 .
( Getty Images for Paramount Pictures )
More
He said : “ To be honest with you , it 's great to be able to spend this much time with my boys because normally I do n't , even though they 've been on the road with us since November in Australia and New Zealand .
“ This is 24/7 with them and it 's fantastic .
I mean I 'm saying that after a week , check on me in about three weeks . ”
The Candle
In The Wind singer had battled on with his world tour despite being diagnosed with Walking Pneumonia in February .
Read more : Madonna dubs COVID-19 ' the great equaliser '
Reflecting on the coronavirus pandemic and its effects on the world he said : “ Maybe this will bring people together and be far more thoughtful about each other in a world where we 're so selfish , me included ...
Elton John had been on a world tour since September 2018 .
( Getty Images )
More
“ You have to be positive and say , ‘ An end will come to this . ’
We do n't know when , but hopefully , scientists have never been so busy now trying to find something that works , trying to find a vaccine .
But that takes time . ”
And Elton urged panic - buyers to stop stripping supermarket shelves and leave food for NHS staff .
He said : “ People just have to do what they 're told and and stop buying all the groceries .
People are buying everything in supermarkets .
And then people who are working like 40 hour shifts in the NHS come off their shift exhausted go to the supermarket , there 's nothing for them to buy .
These are the people that are doing all the hard work . ”

Liam Gallagher pleads with Noel for Oasis reunion to raise NHS funds .
2020-03-25 09:25:36 +00:00 .
Liam Gallagher has set out a " demand " for Oasis to get back together , with money made by the reunion going towards the NHS .
The singer said he was " sick of pleading , begging etc " for the group to reform .
Gallagher said that " all money " raised by the reunion should go towards the health service " after this is all over " , in an apparent reference to coronavirus .
He wrote on Twitter : " Right sick of pleading , begging etc no more olive branches I demand an Oasis reunion after this is all over .
" All money going to NHS c'm on you know . "
Noel Gallagher has yet to respond .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of COVID-19 cases in your local area
Explained : Symptoms , latest advice and how it compares to the flu
Liam Gallagher has also sharing hand - washing videos of himself singing Oasis songs to encourage good hygiene during the outbreak .
Last week in a separate post on social media , Gallagher called for the band to reform for a " one - off " charity gig , saying that afterwards he and brother Noel could " then go back to our amazing solo careers " .
The pair have been locked in a war of words since the band acrimoniously split in 2009 .
The Oasis line up before their Knebworth Park concert , 1995 .
( l - r ) drummer Alan White , Paul " Bonehead " Arthurs , Liam Gallagher , Paul " Guigsy " McGuigan and Noel Gallagher .
( Stefan Rousseau - PA Images / PA Images via Getty Images )
More
The move was prompted by a backstage brawl at the Rock en Seine festival in Paris .
Noel has previously told the Big Issue that every tweet from his brother , who he described as a " moron " , is a " nail in the coffin " of hopes about Oasis reforming .

Coronavirus outbreak, stimulus package, India lockdown: 5 things to know Wednesday .
2020-03-25 08:31:38 +00:00 .
White House , Senate leaders strike massive stimulus deal
The White House and congressional leaders reached a $ 2 trillion stimulus deal early Wednesday to help Americans who have already suffered as the coronavirus shut down millions of U.S. businesses .
The unprecedented economic relief bill would give direct payments to most Americans , expand unemployment benefits and provide a $ 367 billion program for small businesses to keep making payroll while workers are forced to stay home .
The deal also comes a day after President Donald Trump said he hoped to " open up " the nation by Easter despite health officials ' warnings .
Full details of the stimulus bill are expected to be revealed later Wednesday .
India , home to 1.3 billion , implements coronavirus lockdown
India 's 1.3 billion inhabitants were ordered to stay indoors as a " total lockdown " took effect Wednesday in response to the coronavirus pandemic .
Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the three - week effort on Tuesday " to save India .
" Failure to properly manage the next 21 days could set the country back by 21 years , Modi said .
Indian health officials have reported about 450 confirmed cases of COVID-19 , with 10 deaths , but Modi noted that India 's high population density could enable the virus to " spread like wildfire .
" A month - long lockdown also took effect Wednesday in New Zealand .
Alaska to force airport travelers to self - quarantine ; Hawaii next
Travelers looking to escape to Alaska during the coronavirus outbreak may want to reconsider as the state has mandated a 14 - day quarantine for travelers arriving at state airports to keep the virus from spreading in their communities .
Alaska 's order , which goes into effect Wednesday and will be reviewed by April 21 , requires those arriving to fill out a mandatory State of Alaska Travel Declaration Form and identify their " designated quarantine location .
" Travelers have to go straight to their quarantine location from the airport and remain there for 14 days , or their entire stay if it 's shorter .
Hawaii has issued a similar 14 - day mandate as Alaska that will go into effect Thursday .
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis issued an executive order Tuesday requiring anyone flying to Florida from New York , New Jersey or Connecticut to self - isolate for 14 days upon arrival .
Coronavirus impact : After one - day gain , how will markets react ?
Investors will keep a close eye on markets Wednesday after the White House and congressional leaders reached a massive coronavirus stimulus deal .
On Tuesday , the Dow Jones industrial average rebounded , posting its biggest one - day gain in nearly 90 years following a turbulent start to the week .
.
The blue - chip average surged more than 2,100 points , or 11.4 % , to close at 20,704.91 - its largest percentage gain since March 1933 - while the Standard Poor ’s 500 jumped 9.4 % to end at 2,447.33 .
All NFL club facilities to close NFL commissioner Roger Goodell sent out a memo to all 32 teams stating all club facilities will be closed by 6 p.m. local time Wednesday , with limited exceptions .
These facility closures — sparked by the coronavirus outbreak — will continue until at least April 8 , when the league " will assess the advice from medical experts and public health authorities to determine whether it is safe and appropriate for facilities to reopen or to extend the period of closure . "
Teams still will be allowed to sign free - agent players , evaluate draft prospects , sell tickets and other operations related to preparing for the 2020 season .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus , stimulus package : 5 things to know Wednesday

Coronavirus live updates: Senators and White House clinch deal on $2 trillion economic stimulus package .
2020-03-25 07:06:31 +00:00 .
A pandemic of the novel coronavirus has now killed nearly 19,000 people around the world .
There are more than 423,000 diagnosed cases of the new respiratory virus , known officially as COVID-19 , spanning every continent except Antartica , according to data compiled by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University .
The disease has gained a foothold in Europe and North America since the first cases were detected in China back in December .
With more than 55,000 diagnosed cases , the United States has the third - highest national total behind Italy and China .
The virus has spread across every U.S. state as well as Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico , killing at least 797 people .
Tune into ABC at 1 p.m. ET and ABC News Live at 4 p.m. ET every weekday for special coverage of the novel coronavirus with the full ABC News team , including the latest news , context and analysis .
Today 's biggest developments : Senators and White House clinch deal on stimulus package U.S. death toll at 797
Here 's how the news is developing today .
All times Eastern .
Please refresh this page for updates .
5:30 a.m. : Senators and White House clinch deal on stimulus package
After a marathon of closed - door meetings on Capitol Hill , senators and White House officials clinched a bipartisan deal early Wednesday on a massive stimulus package to save the national economy from the detrimental impact of the coronavirus pandemic .
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell described the legislation as " a wartime level of investment in our nation . "
" At last , we have a deal , " McConnell told reporters .
" We ’re going to pass this legislation later today . "
PHOTO : U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin , left , accompanied by White House legislative affairs director Eric Ueland and acting White House chief - of - staff Mark Meadows , walks to offices on Capitol Hill in Washington , D.C. , on March 24 , 2020 .
( Patrick Semansky / AP )
More Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer called the deal " an outstanding agreement . "
" Help is on the way , " Schumer told reporters .
" Big help and quick help . "
MORE :
A look at some financial assistance available during the coronavirus crisis
When asked if U.S. President Donald Trump will sign the legislation , Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told reporters resoundingly , " absolutely . "
" Spoken to the president many times today , " Mnuchin added , " he 's very pleased with this legislation and the impact that this is going to have . "
PHOTO :
A view of the U.S. Capitol 's Rotunda is seen reflected in an ambulance as negotiations on an economic stimulus package amid the coronavirus pandemic continue on Capitol Hill in Washington , D.C. , on March 24 , 2020 .
( Brendan Smialowski / AFP via Getty Images )
More Negotiators from the Senate and the White House have been meeting for the past five days , working to reach a bipartisan agreement on the sweeping measure that will deliver government aid to American families , hospitals and businesses reeling from the virus outbreak and the resulting economic fallout .
At roughly $ 2 trillion , it 's the largest economic stimulus package in modern American history .
MORE :
Here are the states that have shut down nonessential businesses
At least 23 states have enacted policies to close nonessential businesses in an effort to slow the spread of novel coronavirus on U.S. soil .
ABC News ' Trish Turner contributed to this report .
What to know about the novel coronavirus :
Coronavirus live updates : Senators and White House clinch deal on $ 2 trillion economic stimulus package originally appeared on abcnews.go.com

Hong Kong police arrest suspected fraudster after online shoppers wanting masks are duped out of HK$950,000 .
2020-03-25 06:57:10 +00:00 .
Hong Kong police have arrested a suspected member of a fraud syndicate that posed as a seller of surgical masks and duped more than 100 online shoppers out of HK$950,000 ( US$ 122,502 ) in less than two weeks .
The 40 - year - old man was one of the holders of bank accounts used to collect the money from 103 victims between January 27 and February 7 , Senior Inspector Chan Man - ho said on Wednesday .
Chan said further arrests were possible as police tried to track down the other account holders .
To find targets , the gang posted an advert on Facebook in late January , saying Japan - made surgical masks were for sale at HK$55 for a box of 50 pieces , and promised they would be available by mid - February .
At that time , a box of 50 masks was being sold for as much as HK$500 in the city , with residents desperately hunting for the protective gear amid the coronavirus outbreak .
Police are trying to track down others involved in the scam .
Photo :
Warton Li
More Police said buyers were asked to pay in full before the delivery of the goods .
Many victims transferred money into the designated bank accounts controlled by the gang .
They realised they had been conned when they did not receive the goods and the seller stopped answering messages .
“ The amount of loss involved in each case ranged between HK$550 and HK$186,000 , ” Chan said .
After learning the identities of some syndicate members , police arrested the 40 - year - old in Chai Wan on Tuesday .
As of Wednesday afternoon , the suspect was being detained at Wan Chai police station for questioning and had not been charged .
In Hong Kong , obtaining property by deception carries a maximum penalty of 14 years in jail .
Police urged the public to stay alert especially when shopping online .
“ If in doubt , call the anti - scam helpline on 18222 , ” a police spokesman said .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
This article Hong Kong police arrest suspected fraudster after online shoppers wanting masks are duped out of HK$950,000 first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Coronavirus: 24 people test positive for COVID-19 after Queensland birthday party .
2020-03-25 06:26:56 +00:00 .
Another 46 cases of coronavirus were diagnosed in Queensland overnight , 24 of which were at a restaurant celebrating a 50th birthday .
The partygoers as well as four staff who served diners at Sails Restaurant in Noosa last week have tested positive to COVID-19 , according to health officials .
The number of confirmed cases in the state has reached 443 , with borders to be closed from midnight tonight , banning the entry of anyone not travelling for work , medical appointments or delivering freight .
The infected Sails Restaurant employees worked at the restaurant on March 18 from 4–11.15pm and March 19 from 3–10pm without knowing they were infectious at the time .
Anyone who dined at Sails during those times are urged to monitor their health for 14 days from those dates and see a doctor immediately if they develop any symptoms .
24 coronavirus cases came out of a Sunshine Coast 50th birthday party .
Source : Getty Images
More Mayor Tony Wellington said 20 of the people who tested positive after attending the 50th birthday party could have dispersed widely across the state by now .
Coronavirus live blog : Latest news and updates from Australia
“ Only four of those live on the Sunshine Coast , the rest have dispersed elsewhere into southeast Queensland , ” he told The Courier Mail .
Sails Restaurant has been closed since 23 March 2020 .
Further bans have been enforced by Prime Minister Scott Morrison to restrict the movements of residents .
Mr Morrison has shut down dine - in restaurants , as well as banning weddings and any private parties to ensure social distancing .
‘ The time for parties has to stop now ’
Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said the incident was a clear example of why social distancing is so important .
" The time for parties has to stop now .
I want it to be a strong message for all age groups out there , you can not do this , ” Ms Palaszczuk said .
She told outsiders not to visit the state and threatened a $ 13,000 fine for people who break new self - isolation rules .
" I make no apologies for protecting Queenslanders ' health , full stop , " she said .
" I ask people to be patient
but I also ask people if you do not need to come to Queensland , please do not come to Queensland . "
Camping grounds will also be closed from Thursday .
This measure hopes to restrict the number of gatherings as school holidays approach .
More venues closed from tonight
Pubs , clubs , cinemas , sporting venues , gyms , places of worship , auctions and open houses , beauty therapy and tattooists , amusement parks , libraries , galleries , museums , swimming pools and play centres are closed .
Several of the birthday party attendees could be dispersed across the state .
Source : Getty Images
More
Hairdressers and barbers are limited to 30 - minute appointments while all dining out options can serve takeaway and home deliveries only .
Weddings are limited to five people and funerals to 10 .
The state government on Tuesday announced it was pouring $ 1.2 billion into the health system to ramp up its response to the virus and $ 2.5 billion to help households and the workforce .
Health Minister Steven Miles says Queensland has conducted one in four coronavirus tests in Australia , with more than 37,300 completed by Tuesday .
Do you have a story tip ?
Email :
newsroomau@yahoonews.com .
You can also follow us on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play .

Online game players were top target for scammers during China’s coronavirus lockdown .
2020-03-25 05:52:41 +00:00 .
China ’s gamers were the largest group of victims amid a spike in internet scams during the country 's coronavirus outbreak as millions of quarantined people turned to online games to alleviate boredom .
Liewang Platform , a website where Chinese internet users can report online fraud cases , found that scammers were out in force during the outbreak , which has so far sickened more than 81,000 in China and resulted in almost 3,300 local deaths .
Fraud cases tracked by the platform soared 47 per cent year on year to 3,243 from January 24 to March 13 , the period when the pandemic wreaked havoc on China and saw hundreds of millions of people confined to their homes .
The biggest group of victims were young online game players , who reported 550 cases , according to an analysis of the Liewang data by Qihoo 360 Technology , a Chinese internet security company .
Online fraudsters are always quick to exploit the vulnerable but the coronavirus outbreak , which saw a huge spike in the number of people turning to mobile games to alleviate boredom , delivered an even larger pool of potential victims among China ’s 800 million internet users .
A typical scam in these cases would involve the sale of a game account or game assets at very low prices , which then turn out to be fake .
“ Younger players are the easiest to be scammed , ” the Qihoo 360 report said .
“ They have more time to play games …
The fraud increased with the rising level of trading in game accounts and items . ”
Most of China ’s blockbuster gaming titles have seen a surge in play time and in - game purchases since January , which was further fuelled by the release of new titles .
Tencent ’s Honor of Kings led the charts with daily active users surpassing 100 million over the Lunar New Year holiday , compared with the average level of around 60 million to 70 million , according to Nomura .
Financial fraud was second to online gaming when it came to scams during the outbreak period , with 522 cases reported from people seeking financial help after they faced delays in returning to paid jobs , according to the Liewang data .
In the early stages of the outbreak , which later became a global pandemic , fears about getting sick because of a shortage of face masks also created a situation that was exploited by scammers , resulting in many people becoming victims of online mask fraud .
With demand for masks far exceeding supply , many Chinese turned to online channels such as WeChat groups and the Twitter - like Weibo platform to look for possible supplies .
However , “ swindlers provided fictitious supply to satisfy the urgent demand , so fraud related to masks was rising , ” said the Qihoo 360 report , without citing numbers .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Online game players were top target for scammers during China ’s coronavirus lockdown first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

U.S. automakers to extend shutdown into April: sources .
2020-03-25 04:00:39 +00:00 .
By David Shepardson
WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - Detroit 's Big Three automakers plan to extend a current shutdown of vehicle production in North America into April as the coronavirus pandemic continues , people briefed on the matter said Tuesday .
The automakers had said on March 18 they would halt production until at least March 30 .
Ford Motor Co F.N said in a statement Tuesday it was " not planning to restart our plants in the U.S. , Canada and Mexico on Monday , March 30 as originally hoped . "
Two people briefed on the matter said Ford does not plan to restart production until at least April 6 but warned it could be further delayed into April .
General Motors Co GM.N and Fiat Chrysler
Automobiles NV FCHA.MI also do not plan to resume production on March 30 , three people briefed on the matter said .
It was unclear when they may resume production or if some plants could restart before others .
GM declined to comment Tuesday but said last week when it announced the shutdown it would last " until at least March 30 .
Production status will be reevaluated week - to - week after that . "
Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer issued an order on Monday barring non - essential businesses from operating until April 13 .
A spokeswoman for Whitmer was unable to clarify on Tuesday whether auto production is considered essential or not .
Michigan has declared vehicle sales by auto dealers to be impermissible under the order , but dealerships and other facilities can make repairs .
United Auto Workers President Rory Gamble said in a letter to union members on Tuesday that Fiat Chrysler had told the union that it would comply with the Michigan governor 's order and had " no plans to reopen on March 30 . "
Fiat Chrysler declined to comment on the UAW letter .
The UAW also said two Fiat Chrysler union members -- one in Indiana and one in Michigan -- have died after contracting the coronavirus .
Gamble 's letter said the union is " waiting to hear from GM and are demanding that they put our members ’ safety first and adhere to government and health officials ’ recommendations to stay - at - home . "
A group representing major U.S. and foreign automakers warned in a letter to U.S. lawmakers with other industry groups on Monday that " Auto industry analysts are expecting sales to be down by as much as 40 percent in March compared to 2019 .
" The letter said 95 % of North American auto plants are currently closed .
( Reporting by David Shepardson ;
Editing by Simon Cameron - Moore )

Coronavirus task force doctor declines to back up Trump's timeline for easing social distancing guidelines .
2020-03-25 03:57:23 +00:00 .
President Trump claims it 's possible for the United States to be " opened up and just raring to go " again in under three weeks , but one of the officials on his coronavirus task force declined to support that tight timeline .
During an appearance on Fox News on Tuesday amid the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic , Trump said he would " love " to have the United States " opened " again by Easter , which is on April 12 .
This comes after Trump in a Monday press conference said the United States will " soon be open for business , very soon , a lot sooner than the three or four months that somebody was suggesting . "
This short timeline was revisited later in Fox News ' broadcast , with anchor Bill Hemmer asking Trump if this is really possible and Trump asserting that it is , although he said that Americans would still have to continue taking precautions like " staying away from each other " and washing their hands .
Hemmer then turned to Dr. Deborah Birx of Trump 's coronavirus task force , asking her if the Easter timeline is " realistic . "
Birx would not specifically say whether it is , instead responding that the White House will continue to " get all of the data from around the country and all of the data from around the globe and really understand what 's working . "
She also emphasized that the White House 's 15 - day social distancing guidelines must continue to be followed for the next week .
NBC News notes that " public health experts and local and state leaders have cautioned against easing restrictions too early , saying it could put an enormous strain on hospitals and lead to even more deaths and economic damage . "
And Trump 's new timeline comes a day after Surgeon General Jerome Adams told CBS This Morning , " We know it 's going to be a while before life gets back to normal . "
More stories from theweek.com Britney Spears calls for wealth redistribution , general strike on Instagram N.J. man charged with terroristic threats after coughing on grocery store worker and saying he had coronavirus White House task force officials say anyone who left NYC should self - quarantine

Coronavirus, durable goods, Micron earnings: What to know in markets Wednesday .
2020-03-25 01:55:20 +00:00 .
Investor focus Wednesday will continue to surround the COVID-19 pandemic .
Markets rallied Tuesday on hopes for a massive $ 2 trillion fiscal stimulus package .
The Dow ( ^DJI ) soared 2,112 points for its best day since 1933 .
Meanwhile , the SP 500 ( ^GSPC ) spiked 9.38 % and the Nasdaq ( ^IXIC ) surged 8.12 % .
Durable goods orders
Though the February preliminary durable goods orders data is unlikely to capture the impact of COVID-19 , the transportation component will be in focus .
Transportation equipment orders are expected to have plunged dramatically during the month due to Boeing ( BA ) .
“ Durable goods orders appear set to plummet in coming months , as uncertainty paralyzes capital investment and supply disruptions hit manufacturers , ” Wells Fargo said in a note March 20 .
Analyst anticipate durable goods orders tumbled 1 % from last month , and durable goods excluding transportation will likely decline 0.4 % .
Micron Technology 's solid - state drive for data center customers is presented at a product launch event in San Francisco , U.S. , October 24 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Stephen Nellis REFILE - CORRECTING TYPE OF THE DRIVE
More Micron earnings
On the earnings calendar for Wednesday , chipmaker Micron ( MU ) is scheduled to report results after the market close .
Analysts polled by Bloomberg expect the company to report adjusted earnings of 36 cents per share on $ 4.69 billion in revenue during its fiscal second quarter .
Susquehanna analyst Mehdi Hosseini predicts that Micron ’s supply - chain disruption in China will be offset by stronger average selling prices ( ASPs ) .
“ We think the most critical catalyst for the stock is n't the upcoming February - quarter report , but rather determining the extent of demand destruction which we do n't expect to be known until May , ” Hosseini wrote in a note March 23 .
“ Micron 's exposure to China ( Huawei + Kingston ~20 - 25 % ) , along with lean inventories among all memory manufacturers , are two factors that could actually provide a cushion as China recovers from the coronavirus , all while EU and North America have yet to see a peaking in new cases . ”
Micron shares have been under pressure along with the broader market this year .
The stock fell more than 19 % so far this year but has outperformed the SP 500 ’s 24 % decline during the same time period .
The options market is currently implying a 17.9 % move in either direction for Micron ’s stock following the earnings announcement .
— Heidi Chung is a reporter at Yahoo Finance .
Follow her on Twitter : @heidi_chung .
More from Heidi : Find live stock market quotes and the latest business and finance news
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , LinkedIn , and reddit .

Aftermarket Industry Offering To Manufacture Medical Supplies .
2020-03-25 00:11:07 +00:00 .
As health care professionals face a shortage in safety gear and medical devices , American manufacturers are offering up their services .
A number of automakers ( including Ford , Chrysler and General Motors ) have already announced a transition from car manufacturing to the production of medical supplies such as ventilators and respirators , and now the aftermarket industry is offering to help boost production of life - saving equipment as well .
Scuderia Cameron Glickenhaus and Ford - tuner Steeda are just two examples of companies are offering to help during this challenging global Covid-19 pandemic .
On March 21st , boutique exotic car maker Scuderia Cameron Glickenhaus came forward on social media and offered to let the nearby hospital utilize its brand - new factory in Danbury , Connecticut .
This 40,000 - square - foot facility was scheduled to start building 100 SCG004 supercars per year , but instead this space could be used as a makeshift hospital to help doctors and nurses treat patients who test positive for Covid-19 .
We 're sure it wo n't be necessary but upon hearing that Danbury Hospital is running out of space we 're offering to loan our large factory building to be used as a temporary hospital for as long as necessary .
Geplaatst door Scuderia Cameron Glickenhaus op Zaterdag 21 maart 2020 Then on March 24 , the company revealed that it is developing a low - cost solution for hospital masks that can be sterilized .
A prototype mask is already well into development , and if approved , Glickenhaus will be able to quickly manufacture " hundreds of thousands " of masks for health care professionals .
That same day , Georgia - based Steeda said that it is willing to help build just about anything required to help doctors , hospitals and those afflicted by the coronavirus .
Normally , Steeda is cranking out high - performance aftermarket components for Ford products ( especially the Mustang ) , but the company 's recent post on Facebook suggests Steeda has the ability and capacity to build anything from ventilators to hospital beds .
ATTENTION : Please share this post with those who could use our help !
With the deep and severe need for ventilators , ...
Geplaatst door Steeda op Dinsdag 24 maart 2020
As the world comes to grips with this new virus , it 's going to take a global effort to fight Covid-19 ... even if that just means doing our part and staying home for social distancing .
Related Articles ...
Is COVID-19 Accelerating An Industry Disruptor ?
How is the collector industry adapting to so many shutdowns ?
Neil PittMotorious

Coronavirus: Kubrat Pulev sees no problem in fighting Anthony Joshua without spectators .
2020-03-24 19:58:19 +00:00 .
Bulgarian Kubrat Pulev , the IBF ’s mandatory challenger , said he saw no problem in fighting Briton Anthony Joshua for the world heavyweight title in a match without spectators .
The 38 - year - old former European amateur super - heavyweight champion Pulev , known as “ The Cobra ” , said he was ready to face Joshua whenever the organisers decide .
Last week , he told Bulgarian media the fight , scheduled to take place on June 20 at Tottenham Hotspur ’s stadium in London , would be postponed by several months due to the coronavirus outbreak .
Promoter Eddie Hearn , however , reacted quickly , saying the fight had still not been officially called off .
“ I ’m ready for June 20 , July 25 , whenever they say , ” Pulev , one of Bulgaria ’s most popular sportsmen , told bTV channel .
“ You see what the situation is , the whole world must adjust to it .
Kubrat Pulev is happy to fight without fans(Getty )
More
“ There ’s no problem ( if the fight is ) to be without spectators .
Everyone would be at home , they can pay per view , so I do n’t see any problem financially .
“ The show could be lost a bit without fans but it can still happen .
After all , it ’s a world championship , which must take place . ”
The 30 - year - old Joshua reclaimed the WBA , WBO and IBF belts with a unanimous points win over Andy Ruiz Jr in December .
Joshua was initially due to fight Pulev at Cardiff ’s Principality Stadium in October 2017 but the Bulgarian withdrew after suffering a shoulder injury in sparring .
Pulev had challenged for the IBF world heavyweight title in 2014 but lost to Wladimir Klitschko in Hamburg when he was knocked out in the fifth round .
Read more
This is the main obstacle that could stop Fury vs Joshua in 2020

Carmen Reinhart Says Global Economy in Worst Spot Since 1930s .
2020-03-24 18:52:29 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The global economy has n’t looked this fragile since the Great Depression of the 1930s , according to Harvard University economist Carmen Reinhart .
That was the last time the world witnessed a sustained downturn in both emerging markets and their developed - nation counterparts , she said .
As a result , it would be difficult to bet on a short - term rebound in assets , like when riskier securities snapped back after the 2008 global financial crisis or when developed markets performed relatively well during the Latin American debt crises of the 1980s , she said .
“ Today is reminiscent of the 1930s , ” Reinhart said in an interview on Tuesday from her home in St. Petersburg , Florida , where she relocated after Harvard pivoted to online learning .
“ The slump in commodities , the crash in global trade and synchronization of recessions is more like then than any time . ”
The Cuba - born economist said she expects China ’s growth rate to turn negative , meaning the world ’s second - largest economy will be less willing to lend to nations in Latin America , Africa and Asia .
Emerging markets already appeared weaker as a whole than the global financial crisis based on their reserves , growth rates and commodity prices .
She said the double whammy of the coronavirus and the Saudi - Russia oil price war is the “ kiss of death ” for producers like Ecuador , Angola and Algeria .
It will also inevitably delay debt restructuring processes from Argentina to Lebanon and lead corporate defaults to “ skyrocket , ” according to Reinhart .
Pandemic Threatens to Disrupt $ 160 Billion of Debt Negotiations
On Monday evening , Ecuador ’s Finance Minister Richard Martinez said the government would pay bonds maturing today while putting close to $ 200 million of interest payments on hold , using grace periods to spend the money instead in response to the coronavirus .
“ Ecuador will be defaulting , ” Reinhart said .
“ The finance minister ’s words are extremely reasonable , but you ’re basically hoping oil prices will be higher and the coronavirus will be waning . ”
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

As coronavirus cases increase, Defense Secretary Mark Esper places new restriction on Pentagon .
2020-03-24 18:06:34 +00:00 .
Defense Secretary Mark Esper said Monday he is again raising the protection condition on the Pentagon , which will further restrict access to one of the world ’s largest office buildings .
The Pentagon will now be at Level C , the second highest of the military ’s five health protection conditions .
Esper had previously raised the Pentagon ’s health protection condition ( HPCON ) to B , which means “ some community transmission ” of coronavirus , at midnight on March 15 .
HPCON C , which equates to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ’s Warning Level 3 , means “ sustained community transmission . ”
The most recent escalation came two days after the Defense Department announced the death of a contractor who worked at the Defense Security Cooperation Agency in Crystal City , Va. , a business district adjacent to the Pentagon .
The latest measure will limit the number of access points to the Pentagon , will increase the amount of personnel who will be teleworking and may require medical screening for those who continue to work from the Pentagon , Esper said .
Defense Secretary Mark Esper .
( Screengrab via Yahoo News )
More
Previous steps to enable social distancing had already cut the number of people working in the Pentagon by “ 60 percent or more , ” Esper said , adding that it ’s possible that Pentagon employees would have to undergo medical screening , including temperature testing , before being allowed into the building .
However , the latest steps would not block accredited journalists from the Pentagon .
“ There is no intent whatsoever … to limit the access of the press , ” said Esper , who has been giving frequent news conferences to the small number of reporters still covering the Pentagon from the inside .
“ We want to keep the building open , certainly for essential personnel and for the media , ” he said .
Esper said he expected to make more information available about the Pentagon ’s health measures later on Monday .
To date , 133 U.S. military personnel have tested positive for the virus , Esper said .
_ _ _ _ _
Read more from Yahoo News :

South Africa braces for lockdown as coronavirus cases spike to 554 .
2020-03-24 17:23:12 +00:00 .
By Alexander Winning and Olivia Kumwenda - Mtambo JOHANNESBURG ( Reuters ) - South African businesses braced for a nationwide lockdown and panic buyers stockpiled food and other essentials on Tuesday as the number of confirmed coronavirus cases jumped to 554 from 402 a day earlier .
President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the 21 - day lockdown from midnight on Thursday in an address to the nation on Monday , saying Africa 's most advanced economy needed to escalate its response to curb the spread of the respiratory pandemic .
South Africa has the highest number of confirmed coronavirus cases in sub - Saharan Africa , and public health experts are worried that the virus could overwhelm the health system if infection rates rise steeply .
Ramaphosa deployed the army in the streets , ordered underground mines to suspend operations and confined tourists who had arrived recently from " high - risk " countries to their hotels - some of the toughest measures on the continent .
Rwanda has also imposed severe restrictions on movement , including " non - essential movements outside the home " .
Many analysts have praised Ramaphosa for acting swiftly to impose restrictions on movement before the virus has claimed any lives , drawing on the experience of badly affected countries in Europe and Asia .
" The numbers , we must n't be shocked when we see them increase .
But these measures if we all work together must turn the curve around , " said Health Minister Zweli Mkhize , adding that two patients were in intensive care .
Mkhize said South Africa could reach a turning point in its infection curve two or three weeks after its lockdown restrictions enter into force .
Unlike developed economies , South Africa has n't promised massive fiscal stimulus to cushion the blow from the coronavirus , partly because it has limited room for new spending as it battles to preserve its last investment - grade credit rating .
" We will have to use all what 's possible in terms of reprioritisation to address the current challenges , " senior finance ministry official Dondo Mogajane said on Tuesday .
BUSINESS IMPACT
The lockdown will pile added pressure on an economy that is already in recession and where roughly 30 % of the population is unemployed .
Many business owners are worried , despite a handful of support measures like tax subsidies announced by Ramaphosa .
Kristalia Syrrafos , the 31 - year - old owner and founder of the Tilt cafe in Johannesburg 's Melville district , said she expected a " real big knock " .
" You ca n't prepare ...
We'll get as much food out of here as possible and then close our doors , " she said .
Across town , people ignored government pleas to stop hoarding basic goods .
" I was expecting this shutdown , so I already bought quite a lot of things , " Patience Khumalo , 35 , a retired security company manager who now drives an Uber , said while loading up his trolley with oil , peppers and rice .
" The president made a good move to stop infections early , but some people are going to suffer . "
Johannesburg - listed companies have started taking emergency measures to cut costs and minimise expenditure .
Aviation company Comair suspended all its flights for franchise partner British Airways and the kulula.com low - cost airline from Thursday until April 19 .
Tsogo Sun Gaming said its casinos would be closed by Wednesday , and packaging firm Mpact postponed paying a dividend .
( Additional reporting by Helen Reid , Tim Cocks , Emma Rumney and Nqobile Dludla in Johannesbug and Clement Uwiringiyimana in Kigali ;
Editing by Mark Heinrich )

Coronavirus May Impact Home, Car Purchases .
2020-03-24 16:34:04 +00:00 .
According to new research , as consumers adjust to the changes sparked by the spread of COVID-19 , some are clamping down on their wallets and putting off major purchases .
Concerns about the novel coronavirus and its resulting illness COVID-19 have grown over time , according to two surveys conducted by SFW , a company that helps businesses with branding .
Approximately 1,586 consumers took part in the surveys , taken one week apart .
The first survey of 616 consumers took place March 6 and the second survey of 970 consumers occurred on March 13 .
The surveys made one thing evident : A lot can happen in a week .
During the seven days that took place between surveys , consumers became more aware of the respiratory disease and some began to see an impact on their lives .
The percentage of respondents who said they were familiar with COVID-19 and the risks it posed increased from 64 % to 80 % during that time frame .
Likewise , more than twice as many consumers ( 37 % ) said they had been impacted by the spread of COVID-19 by March 13 than had been impacted the week before ( 16 % ) .
Growing economic concerns
When it comes to COVID-19 , consumers are n’t just worried about their health ; many are also becoming increasingly concerned about how disruptions caused by the disease could affect their wallets .
For example , some hourly employees are seeing reduced hours while other workers may be facing job losses altogether .
By the time the second survey was taken , 43 % of respondents believed their household income would be negatively impacted by the coronavirus crisis .
That percentage was 70 % higher than the 26 % who were concerned about the effect on their household income the week before .
One way consumers may be handling their financial concerns is by curtailing their spending .
The surveys showed a drop in the percentage of consumers planning major purchases this year .
Home buying and home improvement services , in particular , took a hit .
Among those planning to buy a new house in 2020 , the percentage who said they were still moving forward dropped from 67 % to 41 % over the course of the week .
Among those planning to make major home improvements this year , the percentage planning to move forward dropped from 49 % to 35 % .
Among those planning to buy new home furnishings , the percentage planning to move forward dropped from 51 % to 35 % .
Car manufacturers and dealerships could also take an economic hit as a number of survey respondents also put their auto buying plans on hold .
Among respondents planning to buy a car this year , the percentage who said they were likely to move forward dropped from 49 % to 36 % over the week - long period between surveys .
During times of uncertainty , it makes sense to curb spending particularly if you believe your income may be at risk .
In addition to postponing major purchases , you may want to take a look at your daily budget and see if there are some small expenses you can cut .
By being proactive today , you may find that you are in a better position than you thought later in the year and you may be able to move forward with your larger purchases after all .

Exclusive: Citadel turns 2020 profit after spotting virus risk early .
2020-03-24 12:39:06 +00:00 .
By Lawrence Delevingne
BOSTON ( Reuters ) - Citadel , the Chicago - based hedge fund giant led by billionaire Ken Griffin , has so far weathered the coronavirus market storm well , turning a slight profit in its flagship Wellington hedge fund for the year through Monday , according to a person familiar with the situation .
The fund , which practices a so - called multi - strategy array of bets on stocks , bonds , commodities and other securities using teams of traders , was as of Friday down 5.25 % for March , the person said , who requested anonymity because the information is private .
The exact year - to - date gain , which is net of fees , was not finalized .
By comparison , Goldman Sachs ’ prime services division estimated that the average equity - focused hedge fund is down 15.5 % for the month through Thursday , with average year - to - date losses at nearly 16 % .
Citadel 's multi - strategy competitors are still down for the year amid the coronavirus - led market rout .
Millennium Management LLC ’s main hedge fund is down about 4.3 % for 2020 through March 20 , while Schonfeld Strategic Advisors LLC is down about 15 % through March 16 , according to people briefed on the returns .
The exact drivers of Citadel ’s relative outperformance were unclear .
The Wall Street Journal previously reported that Citadel ’s fixed - income portfolio recently lost hundreds of millions of dollars , in part from so - called basis trades on pricing gaps between U.S. Treasuries and futures , although those unrealized losses were recovered within days .
The Citadel Global Fixed Income Fund is now positive for the year through Monday , the person with knowledge of Citadel said .
SPOTTING RISK
Citadel showed it was thinking about coronavirus and its market impact relatively early .
On Feb. 6 , Griffin called the coronavirus “ probably the most concrete short - run risk we see in the financial markets globally ” during an appearance at The Economic Club of New York .
" It ’s not a Chinese health crisis .
It is a global health crisis , " he said .
Citadel had three days earlier announced that its executives had mobilized $ 7.5 million to support relief efforts in the United States and China , including more than $ 1 million in medical supplies to a hospital in hard - hit Wuhan .
The firm recently set up the Citadel Relative Value Fixed Income Fund , according to a March 13 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) , a bid to take advantage of new market volatility .
Citadel has placed an emphasis on risk management since the last financial crisis , when its main funds lost 55 % over 2008 and were forced to temporarily limit client withdrawals .
Its website touts “ a quarter of a century establishing risk management as a core discipline ” and a global risk management center in Chicago , anchored by a 27 foot by 8 foot data visualization touchscreen .
The firm still uses significant leverage , or borrowed money , to amplify its potential profits .
A Jan. 17 SEC filing notes regulatory assets under management of about $ 194 billion as of Dec. 31 , 2018 , implying leverage of approximately six and a half times Citadel 's $ 30 billion in invested assets as of February , according to its website .
2020 marks 30 years since Citadel was founded by Griffin , who famously started the firm after trading from his Harvard College dorm room .
The annualized return for Citadel 's Wellington fund , launched in 1990 , was 18.78 % net of fees through 2019 , the person said , more than double the SP 500 Index .
( Reporting by Lawrence Delevingne , editing by Paritosh Bansal and Steve Orlofsky )

COVID-19: Senior-centric activities continue to be suspended until 30 April .
2020-03-24 11:42:33 +00:00 .
By Amir Hussain and Dhany Osman SINGAPORE — Senior - centric activities in Singapore will continue to be suspended until 30 April , the multi - ministry taskforce for COVID-19 announced on Tuesday ( 24 March ) .
Such activities have been suspended since 11 March at all community clubs , residents ’ committees , Senior Activity Centres , Active Aging Hubs , CREST Centres , Health Promotion Board and ActiveSG sports centres .
In addition , the taskforce is advising seniors and individuals with underlying chronic medical conditions – such as heart diseases , diabetes and lung diseases – to avoid social gatherings and crowded places as far as possible .
They should go out only for essential purposes , such as work or purchasing food and supplies .
They are also advised to maintain vigilance and good personal hygiene such as washing their hands frequently and avoiding touching their faces and eyes unnecessarily .
They should also see a doctor immediately if feeling unwell .
The suspension of senior - centric activities was implemented after a slew of infected cases linked to a senior citizen social activity at SAFRA Jurong .
The infected seniors had subsequently taken part in singing classes and other activities such as qigong and line - dancing at several CCs and RCs .
Community isolation Facility in Pasir Ris
The Ministry of Health ( MOH ) is also setting up a community isolation facility at D’Resort NTUC in Pasir Ris
Close , in order to cope with a possible surge in cases .
The facility has a maximum capacity of about 500 persons and is now operational .
Patients who are clinically well enough to be discharged but are still testing positive for COVID-19 will be placed in the facility for isolation and care .
These patients have been isolated in hospitals thus far .
However , as they do not require significant medical care , it has not been an efficient use of the hospitals ’ resources .
The facility is modelled after the existing government quarantine facilities , and will be managed with a higher baseline level of infection control by staff .
The cost of isolation in the facility will be borne by the government .
Stay in the know on - the - go : Join Yahoo Singapore 's Telegram channel at http://t.me/YahooSingapore Related stories : COVID-19 : All senior - centric activities conducted by government agencies to be suspended for 14 days COVID-19 : FairPrice , Dairy Farm Singapore to reserve shopping hours for vulnerable members of public COVID-19 : Singapore sees new single - day high of 54 cases including 48 imported ; total at 509 COVID-19 : Singapore mulling ' consequences ' for citizens , residents who continue to travel overseas COVID-19 : Singapore closes its borders to all tourists , short - term visitors

Biden Says ‘No Need’ to Postpone November Vote Over Virus .
2020-03-24 09:03:30 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Joe Biden pushed back on suggestions that the November election could be postponed amid the coronavirus pandemic , saying Sunday it ’s important that voting continues as it has during other crises in American history .
“ We have to let the electoral process run .
We ought to be able to preserve our health and our democracy at the same time , ” the 2020 Democratic front - runner said .
“ You know , we voted in the middle of a civil war , we voted in the middle of World War I and II , ” the former vice president said on a conference call with Atlanta - area donors .
The donors on the call had planned to attend a fund - raiser hosted by former Coca - Cola Company chairman and chief executive officer Muhtar Kent -- one of thousands of events around the U.S. cancelled as a result of the coronavirus epidemic .
“ The idea of postponing the electoral process seems to me out of the question , ” Biden said .
His comments came in response to a question from Kent about how Biden planned to campaign against President Donald Trump during the coronavirus pandemic , which has put the U.S. on something like a wartime footing .
‘ Rumors and Speculation ’
Biden raised the suggestion that Trump might try to cancel November ’s elections , still more than seven months away .
“ I know there ’s a lot of rumors and speculation as to , is the other guy going to try to postpone the election in November and all that .
There ’s no need to do that , ” Biden said .
Later , in response to another question about whether voting in the delayed Georgia primary would still count , Biden pointed to some states ’ moves to mail - in ballots as a possible way to handle primaries that had been scheduled for mid - March or later that have been postponed .
Georgia moved its primary from March 24 to May 19 .
Biden has a nearly insurmountable lead over Bernie Sanders in the number of delegates needed to be nominated at the Democratic National Convention .
Biden also said that he ’ll be communicating more from his home , where a rec room has been converted into a TV studio with a high - speed internet line .
He said he ’ll make his first “ presentation ” to the country around 11:30 a.m. ET on Monday , and will subsequently be doing more interviews and online discussions from the studio .
Running Mates Biden also told donors he ’ll start the process of vetting possible running mates “ relatively soon , meaning a matter of weeks . ”
After making a surprise commitment at the last Democratic debate to picking a woman as his vice presidential nominee , he said Sunday at least six or seven women would be on his initial list .
He also said the vetting process will be extensive to ensure “ once I pick someone , God willing , if I ’m the nominee , that there ’s not going to be any snafu . ”
He suggested that he ’s discussed the decision with former President Barack Obama , whom he served as vice president .
“ The most important thing , and I ’ve actually talked to Barack about this , the most important thing is that it has to be someone who the day after they ’re picked is prepared to be president of the United States of America if something happened . ”
Sally Yates , the former deputy attorney general who Trump fired early in his term , participated in the conference - call fund - raiser .
Biden has floated her name in the past as a possible running mate .
“ She ’s really incredible .
Sally ’s an incredible person , ” Biden said .
( Updates with Biden communicating more with voters from his home from 11th paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Jet fuel refining margins turn negative as airlines ground fleets .
2020-03-24 07:39:52 +00:00 .
By Koustav Samanta SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) - Asian jet fuel refining margins have turned negative for the first time in over a decade as airlines continue to ground flights on international and domestic routes amid stringent travel restrictions to contain the coronavirus pandemic .
The already - battered profit margins are expected to come under further pressure as there is no concrete recovery timeframe in sight , trade sources said .
" Global air traffic is down by about 40 - 45 % at present , according to flight tracking sources , with further deterioration expected over the coming weeks as more flight restrictions and airline capacity reductions take effect , " said Richard Gorry , managing director at JBC Energy Asia .
" We expect global jet / kero demand to fall by 4.3 million barrels per day ( bpd ) quarter - on quarter in Q2 - 2020 to just 2.5 million bpd , representing a year - on - year decline of 5.6 million bpd ( -70 % ) as air passenger travel activity is reduced to a minimum . "
Refining margins for jet fuel plunged to minus 7 cents per barrel over Dubai crude on Monday , a level not seen in the last 11 years , according to Refinitiv Eikon data that goes back as far as March 2009 .
Also known as cracks , refining margins are the difference in value between the raw material , crude oil , and the products churned out by refineries .
A negative jet fuel refinery margin means refiners would lose money by producing the aviation fuel at current prices , indicating they will either reduce jet fuel output or lower overall refinery throughput .
Graphic : Asia jet fuel margins dive into the red for the first time in 10 + years amid global lockdown https://reut.rs/2Uu4BNa " I think the cracks have n't gone to their worst yet .
Unless some vaccines come out soon , looks like it will really take some time to recover , " a Singapore - based trader said , declining to be identified as he was not authorized to speak to media .
Traders said the market would remain under pressure until the third quarter , assuming the spread of the virus is contained by then .
Cracks for the aviation fuel in Singapore , which were above $ 10 a barrel as recently as March 10 , have plummeted recently and are currently trading at their worst levels in at least twelve years , Refinitiv Eikon data showed .
Australian fuel supplier Viva Energy said on Tuesday it expects jet fuel demand to plunge by up to 90 % , while its peer Caltex Australia forecast a similar demand drop during the period of flight cancellations .
Jet fuel prices are down nearly 54 % in March alone , while cash differentials for the aviation fuel in Singapore have slumped to their lowest levels in over a year .
( Reporting by Koustav Samanta ;
Editing by Gavin Maguire and Richard Pullin )

These national and state parks are closed amid coronavirus outbreak .
2020-03-24 00:54:19 +00:00 .
As the nation makes drastic changes to everyday life to slow the spread of the coronavirus , many national and state parks are closing to the public .
The closures come as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention maintain social distancing guidelines and a growing number of states impose shutdowns of nonessential businesses .
The National Park Service has closed at least a dozen park sites and modified operations at many others .
Modifications include closing restrooms and visitor centers or allowing only hiking areas and trails to remain open .
Medical experts say outdoor activities such as hiking , jogging and bike riding at parks are safe as long as you 're not doing it in groups .
The CDC advises people to stay 6 feet away from others to avoid possible infection .
National and state parks that have closed because of the pandemic include the following , though visitors should check individual park websites before trying to visit : National park sites Florida
All 175 state parks in Florida will be closed indefinitely beginning March 23 .
Oregon All state parks in Oregon are closed effective March 23 .
North Carolina Several state parks in North Carolina including Crowders Mountain , Lake Waccamaw , Hanging Rock , Raven Rock , Fort Macon and Fort Fisher State Recreation Area are closed until further notice .
California California State Parks have temporarily closed all campgrounds .
Illinois All Illinois state parks and wildlife areas are temporarily closed .
The Illinois Department of Natural Resources said it will work with governor 's office and the state Department of Public Health to determine when parks should reopen .
Pennsylvania Facilities at all state parks , including visitor centers , restrooms and campgrounds , will be closed until March 31 .
Trails , lakes and roads will be remain open to the public .
New Mexico All New Mexico state parks will be closed through April 9 .
Washington All state park campgrounds are closed through April 30 .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Some national parks , state parks close amid outbreak

When have this many Americans filed for unemployment? Maybe never, records show .
2020-03-23 22:23:40 +00:00 .
The coronavirus has forced bars , restaurants , retailers and schools to close as officials look for ways to stop the swell of cases , forcing hundreds of thousands of Americans out of work .
Economists have said that number could balloon into the millions by theend of March .
If unemployment is a key indicator of a country ’s economy , according to The Balance , how do these figures compare to historic moments of economic turmoil in the United States ?
And what do they tell us ?
Unemployment during the coronavirus pandemic
During the second week of March , the U.S. Department of Labor reported 281,000 people filed for unemployment — about 70,000 more than the week before .
That 33 % increase was bigger “ than anything the U.S. labor market saw during the Great Recession , ” according to U.S. News World Report .
Now economists with Goldman Sachs and Bank of America are predicting the number of filings could reach between 2.25 and 3 million for the week ending March 21 .
Unemployment during previous recessions
The number of Americans filing for unemployment since the 1960s , while varying dramatically , has never climbed into the millions , according to data compiled by the DOL .
During the oil crisis recession in 1975 , DOL data shows upwards of 500,000 people were filing for unemployment on a weekly basis .
The unemployment rate climbed to around 8 % at the time , according to The Balance and Investopedia .
Less than a decade later amid the energy crisis recession in the early 1980s , unemployment numbers climbed well into the 600,000 on any given week , statistics show .
Filings reached the highest level on record of 695,000 in October 1982 , according to the DOL , and the unemployment rate peaked at 10.8 percent , the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported .
When the stock market collapsed in 2008 , hurling the U.S. into the Great Recession , the number of Americans filing for unemployment spiked again — this time to 665,000 in March 2009 , according to the DOL .
It was the “ most severe economic downturn in the United States since the Great Depression , ” BLS later said .
The bureau reported a peak unemployment rate of 10 % in October 2009 .
Unemployment as COVID-19 numbers grow
According to U.S. News World Report , the 281,000 figure and 33 percent jump that DOL reported for the week of March 8 - 14 is “ expected to be among the worst in modern history . ”
If the number of people filing for unemployment continues at the current pace , a senior U.S. Reserve official told Bloomberg the unemployment rate could hit 30 percent .
Unemployment peaked at 25 % during the Great Depression .
CNN Business reported that filings climbing into the millions by the end of March is expected given the “ surge in layoffs ” as airlines , hotels and sporting events are hit with a dip in revenue .
“ Although it ’s possible unemployment claims slowed down later in the week , even a conservative estimate suggests more than 1 million people filed initial jobless claims this week — more than the highest level on record of 695,000 in the week ending October 2 , 1982 , ” CNN reported , citing Goldman Sachs economists .

White House press corps confirms ‘suspected case’ of coronavirus in the briefing room .
2020-03-23 22:13:26 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON — A member of the White House press corps who has been in the briefing room several times with President Trump has come down with a suspected case of coronavirus .
White House Correspondents Association President Jon Karl announced the situation in an email to the group ’s membership on Monday afternoon .
“ We have been informed that one of our colleagues has a suspected case of COVID-19 .
The individual was at the White House on March 9 , 11 , 16 and 18 , ” Karl wrote .
“ We encourage all journalists who were at the White House during this time period to review public health guidance , consult their medical professionals and take the appropriate next steps . ”
Prior to the coronavirus pandemic , the White House press briefing room was rarely used by the Trump administration , which had eliminated the daily briefings that were a staple of prior presidential administrations .
Trump came into the briefing room himself on Feb. 27 as the virus crisis mounted .
Since then , the president and his coronavirus task force headed by Vice President Mike Pence have conducted near daily briefings with reporters .
On Sunday , Science Magazine published an interview with Anthony Fauci , director of National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , asking him specifically about the situation in the briefing room , which included multiple people gathered to speak , and reporters packed in the audience .
Fauci , who is a key member of the coronavirus task force , indicated he was aware the situation was problematic .
“ I know that .
I ’m trying my best , ” Fauci replied .
” I can not do the impossible . ”
Immediately following the announcement of the suspected case , the White House Correspondents Association announced a new setup for the briefing room that would have reporters seated further apart .
These press briefings thus far have not included safety measures in line with expert recommendations to practice “ social distancing ” and stay more than six feet apart to avoid spreading the virus .
On March 15 , the White House Correspondents association implemented a new seating chart that had reporters keeping one empty seat between them .
Multiple members of the White House staff have been exposed to coronavirus .
The president and vice president have both said they tested negative for COVID-19 , the disease caused by the virus .
At his briefings , Trump has been joined at the podium by multiple officials who stand closely clustered around him .
On March 14 , White House doctors began checking the temperature of reporters in the briefing room prior to Trump ’s arrival .
However , temperature checks would not identify everyone who could spread the virus since there are asymptomatic carriers .
On March 16 , one of the days the reporter with the suspected COVID-19 case was at the White House , a journalist asked Trump and the task force about the lax practices in the briefing room .
“ Should you guys be spread out a bit more ? ”
Chambers shouted as the group left the room .
Trump did not answer the question .
_ _ _ _ _
Read more from Yahoo News :

Markets Get Weirder With Stocks and Volatility Tumbling Together .
2020-03-23 20:50:24 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The stock market and volatility are in the midst of an unprecedented synchronized swoon .
The SP 500 Index has fallen more than 7 % over the past two sessions while the Cboe Volatility Index , a measure of how much that benchmark gauge is expected to move over the next 30 days , tumbled by more than 10 points .
Before this , there had never been a combination of a two - day equity drop of at least 5 % and a VIX retreat of at least 5 points .
The dual declines could be a function of a market normalizing after high - profile blowups of short volatility bets , less demand to roll hedges after a major option expiry , or simple exhaustion .
Record - setting levels of market fear are n’t easily sustained , and the drop in volatility expectations signals the most frenzied days of selling may be behind us .
“ I think we ’ve broken the back of the VIX fever , ” said Michael Purves , the chief executive officer of Tallbacken Capital Advisors .
“ But the potential for a second surge is a risk if the coronavirus news flow becomes decidedly worse . ”
He cautioned that the VIX drop is n’t signaling a market bottom .
Instead , it shows that things have calmed down enough that equities and volatility are able to move lower in concert thanks to improvements in market making and liquidity .
In the bear market that encompassed the financial crisis , for instance , the VIX Index peaked months before the next bull market began in March 2009.Friday saw the most anomalous divergence between the performance of stocks and implied volatility in at least 12 years .
On a so - called quadruple witching day , when options and futures on indexes and equities expire , the SP 500 plummeted almost 5 % while the VIX Index slumped 6 points .
Since at least the start of 2008 , the VIX Index had never declined on a day in which the SP 500 Index finished at least 4 % lower .
“ Is it a coincidence that this happened on quad witching ? ” said Megan Miller , portfolio manager at Wells Fargo Asset Management .
“ I do n’t think so . ”
One potential explanation for the VIX drop is that investors had already dumped enough of their exposure to risk assets , lessening the need to buy hedges that look expensive by historical standards .
This dichotomy was on display again Monday afternoon , with the SP 500 Index and VIX Index again moving lower in tandem .
One broad factor at play is that it ’s simply difficult for volatility to linger at extreme levels for a prolonged stretch , according to Pravit Chintawongvanich , Wells Fargo ’s equity derivatives strategist .
“Even in 2008 , the VIX was able to sustain only six trading days above 70 ( so far this year , we ’ve had five ) , ” he writes .
“ Regardless of if stocks continue to grind lower or rebound , there is room for the VIX curve to normalize further .
”A reduction in realized volatility after March 16 saw the worst sell - off for the SP 500 Index since 1987 may have contributed to the moderation in the equity market ’s fear gauge .
Implied swings could also have overshot to the upside amid the fallout from high - profile liquidations of short - volatility bets by the likes of Graham Capital Management and Malachite Capital Management .
Calming volatility could thus be viewed as merely the correction of a prior excess , he added
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Which Chain Restaurants Are Still Open During The Coronavirus Outbreak? .
2020-03-23 20:41:20 +00:00 .
From Delish
The news around the COVID-19 outbreak is constantly changing , but information about food safety and how to keep yourself healthy is crucial right now .
Here is a comprehensive list on the foods you should be stocking up on during this period of social distancing , as well as information about your local grocery stores ’ changing hours , an explanation of “ no - contact delivery , ” and a guide on how to help your community and its businesses throughout closures .
As the global coronavirus pandemic drags on , the food industry continues to be greatly affected .
Certain state and city regulations have forced many outposts to shut their doors and become delivery - only , while some have opted to do so on their own to keep employees and customers safe .
Below , we 've listed changes that some restaurant chains have made in response to global coronavirus outbreak .
Again , this can vary by location ( for instance , in some places , all restaurants are carry - out only ) and is subject to change , though we will update as often as we can .
You can find information on fast food restaurants here and grocery stores here .
Applebee 's
Applebee 's is offering guests free delivery via Applebees.com or the Applebee ’s mobile app .
Some dining rooms remain open .
Bahama Breeze
The chain 's dining rooms are all closed , but many locations are offering curbside ordering and pickup .
Bonefish
You can get carry - out or delivery meals from the chain and some dining rooms remain open .
Cheddar 's Scratch Kitchen Dining rooms are closed , but the chain is offering Curbside To Go .
Beer and wine is also available to order in select locations .
The Cheesecake Factory
All locations are take - out and delivery - only due to local ordinances .
The chain will also be offering sealed cutlery and sealed packaging to ensure safe delivery and pick - up .
You can also get a free piece of cheesecake with your online order until April 16 .
Chili 's
Chili 's has free delivery and has enhanced its cleaning and disinfecting procedures for high - trafficked areas .
The company is also offering relief pay to hourly Team Members and emergency paid leave for anyone diagnosed with coronavirus .
Chuck E. Cheese
Chuck E. Cheese closed its dining and game rooms but is offering online and phone carry - out , as well as delivery through Grubhub , DoorDash , and Uber Eats .
Denny 's
The chain has made changes to its procedures , including eliminating condiments at tables and ( in some states ) reducing the number of guests allowed in the dining rooms .
The chain is also offering free delivery until April 12 .
IHOP
The chain is reducing the number of employees working in the restaurant at any given time .
You can also get free delivery when you order on IHOP.com or the IHOP mobile app , through April 19 .
LongHorn Steakhouse LongHorn 's dining rooms are closed , with many locations offering curbside ordering and pickup .
Olive Garden
Olive Garden locations are all take - out or delivery only .
The chain is also offering free delivery for orders over $ 40 .
In addition , its buy one , take one promo is now being offered to go .
Outback Steakhouse
The chain is offering free delivery through April 30 and also offers curbside services .
Red Lobster Dining rooms are closed but the chain is offering takeout , delivery , and curbside orders depending on location .
You can also get free delivery until April 12 .
Texas Roadhouse
The chain is offering to - go and curbside services and is turning some of its parking lots into temporary drive - thrus .
TGI Friday 's
The chain is adding distance between tables and removing shared condiments , as well as making single - serve menus available .
You can also get orders via curbside to - go .
You
Might Also
Like

Carriers introduce plans to keep consumers connected during COVID-19 pandemic .
2020-03-23 18:50:27 +00:00 .
Earlier this month , the FCC issued a new measure aimed at easing some of the burdens on consumers as COVID-19 continues to have an increasingly profound impact on nearly every aspect of life .
Most or all major internet and wireless providers in the U.S. signed up for the pledge , agreeing to take actions like waiving late fees and not terminating service .
Now specific plans are starting to emerge from carriers , aimed at helping cash - strapped consumers until this pandemic blows over .
T - Mobile this morning announced the launch of a $ 15 / month Metro plan — at half the cost of its current lowest - price plan .
The pricing will be in place for the next 60 days , including unlimited talk and 2 GB of data .
The company is also tossing in a free eight - inch tablet ( with rebate , plus fine print ) and will be adjusting other data plans for the next two months .
At the same time , Verizon ( TC ’s parent company ) announced that it will be adding 15 GB of 4 G data to current consumer and small business plans , in an effort to help customers use their handsets as mobile hotspots as needed .
The company will also be taking $ 20 off select FiOS plans and waving router rental fees for 60 days .
Like the other carriers , ATT noted in a message to TechCrunch that it will not terminate service over inability to pay .
It will also be waiving late fees , along with domestic overcharges for data , voice and text , retroactive to March 13 .
Sprint , meanwhile , will provide for 60 days unlimited data to customers with metered plans , starting March 18 , along with 20 GB of free mobile hotspot data .

When Are Taxes Due In 2020? Here's What Families Need to Know .
2020-03-23 15:15:33 +00:00 .
The deadline for businesses and individuals to file their federal income taxes has been delayed for three months .
Instead of April 15 , you ’ll have until July 15 to file your 2019 income tax return .
The highly unusual move comes in response to the coronavirus pandemic .
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin announced last Tuesday that the deadline to pay any taxes owed to the government was moving to July 15 , but he was adamant that the filing deadline would remain the same .
On Friday , he reversed course .
The IRS followed up with a press release that offered more specific information .
“ Taxpayers can also defer federal income tax payments due on April 15 , 2020 , to July 15 , 2020 , without penalties and interest , regardless of the amount owed .
This deferment applies to all taxpayers , including individuals , trusts and estates , corporations and other non - corporate tax filers as well as those who pay self - employment tax . ”
So no matter what kind of federal income tax you file , you have extra time to prepare it .
But that does n’t mean that you should necessarily take advantage of it .
IRS Commissioner Chuck Rettig encouraged taxpayers who were owed a refund to file as soon as possible and to file electronically to get their money as soon as possible .
Despite interruptions to other aspects of its operation — Taxpayer Assistance Centers are closed and face - to - face service discontinued indefinitely — Rettig maintained that the IRS continues to promptly process returns .
“ Although we are curtailing some operations during this period , the IRS is continuing with mission - critical operations to support the nation , and that includes accepting tax returns and sending refunds . ”
And even in the wake of brutal Republican - led budget cuts , most tax refunds are still being issued within three weeks of the filing date .
Crucially , Mnuchin ’s pronouncement does not affect state filing deadlines .
Some states have already delayed theirs , and more will likely follow now that the feds have done so , but you should check your state to make sure you do n’t miss one deadline just because another was pushed back .
Related Articles :
The post When Are Taxes Due In 2020 ?
Here ’s What Families Need to Know appeared first on Fatherly .

When do markets bottom during a crisis?: Morning Brief .
2020-03-23 12:01:32 +00:00 .
Monday , March 23 , 2020
Get the Morning Brief sent directly to your inbox every Monday to Friday by 6:30 a.m. ET .
Subscribe
First , we must limit the ‘ deep tail risks ’
The stock market , in theory , is a discounting mechanism .
In other words , it prices in what ’s expected to happen more than what already has .
So when prices fall , it ’s largely because investors expect the future to be worse than what they had previously assumed .
And while there ’s no question that the world is set to face severe economic pain , it ’s certainly possible that much of the bad news is priced into the market .
Furthermore , if developments show that the outlook is less dire than what ’s currently expected , then we could see the market inflect and embark on a new bull market .
Sure , a crisis like what we face now is certainly different than run - of - the - mill tough times .
But what could turn things around would be a form of incrementally better news .
In a research note published on Sunday , Goldman Sachs ’ Kamakshya Trivedi and Zach Pandl argue that markets in a crisis bottom when you can contain “ the deep tail risks . ”
In other words , markets often stop going down when investors can rule out the most nightmarish scenarios .
“ The core insight is that while conditions are deteriorating rapidly , markets find it hard to be confident in the limits of the damage and so put heavy weight on deep negative tail risks , ” the analysts wrote .
“ Inflection points are often , in the first instance , about the market being able to put limits on those tail risks even before true recovery is visible . ”
A tail risk is a risk that has a low probability of being realized .
And in the current conversation , deep tail risks are the unthinkable scenarios that are almost impossible to define .
Reduce the deep tail risks , and markets should bottom .
More Trivedi and Pandl identified six conditions under which those deep tail risks are reduced : “ A stabilization or flattening out of the infection rate curve in the US and Europe ” ; “ Visibility on the depth and duration of disruptions on the economy ” ; “ Sufficiently large global stimulus ” ; “ A mitigation of funding and liquidity stresses ” ; “ Deep undervaluation across major assets and position reduction ” ; and “ No intensification of other tail risks . ”
For now , with the way things have been deteriorating , those deep tail risks have yet to be ruled out .
Consider the past week , during which we ’ve only heard of worsening forecasts for the economy .
Last Monday , we were talking about U.S. GDP plunging at a 10 % rate .
On Wednesday , we were talking about a 14 % rate of decline .
By Friday , we were talking about a 24 % rate .
And on Sunday , the numbers deteriorated to 30 % and even 50 % .
All that sets the stage for a new week of trading , which is already off to a bad start .
That said , you have to wonder how much worse it can get .
“ [ Y]ou know you are getting closer to a bottom when Wall Street economists are tripping over themselves to see who can have the lowest forecast for Q2 .
There is ZERO reputational risk for penciling in a big drop , ” Renaissance Macro ’s Neil Dutta said on LinkedIn .
“ I ’m pretty sure that we will see the biggest quarterly drop in my lifetime and the biggest quarterly annualized increase in the same calendar year , ” he said .
By Sam Ro , managing editor .
Follow him at @SamRo
What to watch today
Economy READ MORE Top News
WASHINGTON , DC- MARCH 20 :
Looking east towards the Capitol Building on a vacant Pennsylvania Avenue at 6:49 pm due to the coronavirus pandemic in Washington , DC on March 20 , 2020 .
( Photo by John McDonnell / The Washington Post via Getty Images )
More Story continues

Hong Kong-listed ESR Cayman posts revenue rise, says e-commerce logistics property to grow thanks to pandemic .
2020-03-23 09:13:53 +00:00 .
E - commerce will continue to grow in the Asia - Pacific region , accelerated by the Covid-19 outbreak , Hong Kong - listed logistics warehouses and industrial real - estate operator ESR Cayman said on Monday .
In its year - end earnings web conference , the company also reported a 40.6 per cent rise in revenue for 2019 to US$ 357 million .
Its net profit climbed 20.8 per cent to US$ 245 million .
Jeffrey Perlman , ESR ’s chairman , said that Asia - Pacific logistics remained the largest property investment opportunity in the region , adding that its e - commerce tenants remained the bedrock of ESR ’s business , constituting about 60 per cent of its clients .
He also said he did not expect a slowdown in business due to the spread of the virus to the European Union , the United States and other import - focused markets , as “ 99 per cent of our business is focused around domestic consumption ” .
He cited reports that Chinese e - commerce giant JD.com expected a 10 per cent rise in revenue for first quarter of 2020 , despite the impact of the coronavirus on China ’s economy .
JD is ESR ’s largest tenant , responsible for 11.1 per cent of its rental income .
Perlman also suggested further investment in logistics real estate would be forthcoming from ESR , even in 2020 .
He said the company was in a relatively strong position as far as cash was concerned , with US$ 2 billion in dry powder waiting to be deployed , likely in tier-1 Asian cities .
Jeffrey Perlman , the chairman of ESR Cayman , centre , at the company ’s listing ceremony in Hong Kong in November last year .
Photo : Jonathan Wong
More
He estimated that changes brought by the spread of the coronavirus in Asia and the reshaping of trade flows would benefit ESR .
Just - in - time delivery models would have to be rethought , he said , as suppliers might need to stockpile more products for local needs and , therefore , need more logistics space .
Jeffrey Shen , the company ’s co - CEO and co - founder , said that just two construction projects out of 43 that ESR was engaged in were still being halted by the Chinese authorities .
The company also said that only two of its 157 properties currently in operation were closed .
In November 2019 , ESR listed in Hong Kong and raised US$ 600 million in new capital from a US$ 1.8 billion IPO .
In addition to directly owning logistics properties in China , Japan , South Korea , Singapore , Australia and India , it also manages funds that hold logistics properties .
Perlman said Indonesia and Vietnam were the next two countries of greatest interest to ESR .
As of December 31 , 2019 , the company ’s gross floor area had grown 42.8 per cent year on year to 17.2 million square metres , mainly in its core markets of China , Japan and South Korea .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Hong Kong - listed ESR Cayman posts revenue rise , says e - commerce logistics property to grow thanks to pandemic first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Fate of Olympic torch relay in balance as virus worsens .
2020-03-23 08:35:11 +00:00 .
The Olympic torch relay , due to begin Thursday from a symbolic site in Fukushima , will proceed as scheduled but organisers said they would re - assess in the coming days given the " worsening " coronavirus situation .
" The torch relay will start on March 26 in Fukushima , the plan has not changed , " Tokyo 2020 CEO Toshiro Muto told reporters , a day after the International Olympic Committee said it was considering postponing the Games due to the pandemic .
" The situation is getting worse and worse , " admitted Muto , but he added : " For now , the decision made one week ago ( to proceed as planned ) is still appropriate . "
The coronavirus has already had a major impact on the torch relay .
In what they described as a " heartbreaking " decision , organisers downscaled a ceremony on Friday to welcome the flame from Greece , keeping 200 children away .
They have also urged people following the torch to avoid forming crowds , and closed daily welcoming and departure ceremonies to the public .
The nationwide torch relay begins on March 26 , starting from the J - Village sports complex in Fukushima that was used as a base for workers during the 2011 earthquake , tsunami and nuclear disaster .
Muto said organisers would learn from the experience of this weekend when tens of thousands flocked to see the Olympic flame on display -- forming exactly the sort of crowds they had hoped to avoid .
On Saturday , more than 50,000 people queued to watch the flame displayed at Sendai station in Miyagi , with some lining up for several hours .
" This is evidence of interest from residents , so in one sense we were delighted , " said Muto , adding that their priority was to prevent the virus from spreading and putting in place " advanced countermeasures " .
Tokyo 2020 president Yoshiro Mori said : " We still have three days until the grand start on the 26th , so I told ( IOC chief Thomas Bach ) that we 'd like to consult ( with the IOC ) while discussing with related parties .
Mr. Bach said he will let us handle this . "
He said even Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had voiced doubts over whether it was appropriate for him to attend the start of the relay .
" I said it is not our position to tell the prime minister if he should come or not , so please make a decision as the government . "
Later Monday , US - based footballer Nahomi Kawasumi announced she was pulling out of the torch relay as she did risk potentially spreading the coronavirus .

Oil Drifts Lower as Hopes for OPEC-Texas Production Truce Fade .
2020-03-23 06:01:17 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Oil dropped toward the lowest level since 2003 as prospects for a deal between OPEC and Texas to limit production appeared to fade , while a U.S. coronavirus rescue package ran into political delays .
Futures in London fell around 3 % to near $ 26 a barrel , while West Texas Intermediate rose after the April contract expired Friday .
Texas Railroad Commissioner Ryan Sitton landed a rare invitation to attend OPEC ’s June meeting on Friday , but just hours later hopes for an agreement began to unravel as his call to curb output was criticized by regulators and drillers .
Democrats in the U.S. Senate blocked a Republican economic recovery package of nearly $ 2 trillion , describing it as too focused on corporations at the expense of workers .
Major support measures remain likely but could take additional time for the two parties to work out their differences .
Asian stocks tumbled , while U.S. equity futures dropped 5 % and hit their down limit .
The chance that either Saudi Arabia or Russia will back down from their price war seems remote , with President Vladimir Putin unlikely to submit to what he sees as the kingdom ’s oil blackmail , according to Kremlin watchers .
The brinkmanship is taking place against a rapidly darkening demand outlook with more nations going into lockdown to tackle the virus .
Some traders see crude demand collapsing by as much as 10 to 20 million barrels a day .
“ Oil could head to $ 10 to $ 15 a barrel very quickly ” if OPEC and Texas ca n’t reach an agreement on cutting production , said Stephen Innes , chief Asia market strategist at
Axicorp Ltd.
“ Any traders with the capacity to store oil are probably putting their hands up , looking at the contango . ”
Brent for May settlement lost 2.7 % to $ 26.26 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe Exchange as of 1:06 p.m. in Singapore after dropping to as low as $ 24.68 earlier .
That ’s less than its close of $ 24.88 a barrel on Wednesday , which was the lowest since May 12 , 2003 .
WTI for May delivery rose 1.2 % to $ 22.89 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after falling to as low as $ 20.80 earlier .
The April contract plummeted 29 % last week , the most since 1991 .
The unprecedented demand and supply shock was reflected in a range of oil - market indicators .
Brent ’s six - month timespread was more than $ 8 a barrel in contango , the widest since 2009 , a market structure indicating over - supply .
A gauge of WTI volatility surged 24 % on Friday to more than 200 index points , the highest level on record .
Meanwhile , hedge fund wagers against the U.S. benchmark dropped 26 % in the week ended March 17 , although that was likely short - covering before the next round of speculative attacks .
Even if crude demand recovers to normal levels by the middle of the year , 2020 is still on course to suffer the biggest decline in consumption since reliable records started in the mid-1960s .
Until now , the biggest annual contraction was recorded in 1980 , when it tumbled by 2.6 million barrels a day as the global economy reeled under the impact of the second oil crisis .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Democrats Block Senate Economic Stimulus Bill as Talks Falter .
2020-03-23 00:58:35 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Senate Democrats blocked Majority Leader Mitch McConnell ’s attempt to advance a coronavirus economic rescue package Sunday after leaders in both chambers disagreed on how to spend nearly $ 2 trillion .
The 47 - 47 vote , with 60 needed to advance the measure , puts in question McConnell ’s plan for the Senate to pass the bill Monday .
Republicans and Democrats alike want an immediate and extensive rescue for an economy ravaged by the coronavirus .
But they continue to differ on key sections , including a $ 500 billion chunk of the bill that could be used to help corporations , including airlines , or state and local governments .
“ We ’ll see what happens , ” President Donald Trump told reporters after the vote .
“ I think we ’ll get there .
To me it ’s not very complicated .
We have to help the worker , we have to save the companies . ”
After the vote failed , an angry McConnell cited plummeting stock futures to express the urgency to act tomorrow , and he ripped House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer .
“ The markets are already reacting to this outrageous nonsense , ” McConnell said .
“ We ’re fiddling here .
We ’re fiddling with the emotions of the American people , fiddling with the markets . ”
SP 500 futures dropped 5 % and hit limit down at the start of the trading day in Asia after the index lost more than 4 % on Friday .
McConnell set up a move to reconsider the vote at a later time and urged “ adults ” among the Democrats to show up and change their minds .
“ This obstruction achieves nothing , ” he said .
Schumer complained the bill was partisan , includes “ a large corporate bailout ” with insufficient oversight , and shortchanges the response to the pandemic .
He said there should be “ much more money ” for hospitals , ventilators , testing and other equipment , as well as aid to state and local governments .
He said negotiations will continue and that it ’s possible the measure could be finished in the next 24 hours .
The vote came hours after the first senator , Republican Rand Paul of Kentucky , announced that he had tested positive for the coronavirus , and some other Republicans said they were self - quarantining because they had been in contact with him .
Pelosi left a meeting in McConnell ’s office earlier Sunday saying they had no deal and the House would write its own package -- a move that could add days of partisan wrangling .
Even before the defeat of the Senate ’s procedural motion , House Democratic leaders were not planning to call the chamber ’s members back to Washington on Monday , or even Tuesday .
House Democrats have instead scheduled a caucus - wide telephone call Tuesday afternoon , rather than bringing members back by then , senior Democratic aides said .
McConnell ’s Republican team had agreed to add hundreds of billions of dollars in spending , including additional unemployment aid and public health spending , but Democrats remained unsatisfied and charged that Republicans were focused on corporations over workers .
A major package remains likely but now could take additional time for the two parties to work out their differences , even as the virus continues to ravage not just the nation but Congress itself .
Two House members , Republican Mario Diaz - Balart of Florida and Utah Democrat Ben McAdams , also have tested positive for the virus .
( Updates with markets in seventh paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

State Department charters flights to evacuate Americans stranded in Guatemala by coronavirus pandemic .
2020-03-22 22:54:31 +00:00 .
The U.S. State Department has chartered two flights Monday to begin evacuating hundreds of Americans who are stranded in Guatemala .
Guatemala suspended all air travel except for cargo flights on March 16 in an effort to slow the spread of coronavirus .
" We do not know when civilian flights will resume in Guatemala after these U.S. government - coordinated charter flights , but urge travelers to continue to check the availability of commercial flight options , " the State Department said .
While the department encourages Americans abroad to travel commercially when possible , the virus has made that more difficult .
On Friday , Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told reporters at the White House that the department had established a repatriation task force to help Americans trapped outside the country .
" We ’re trying to get Americans back from these places where air travel has been disrupted , " he said .
"
And we ’ll get that done over time .
We ’ll get it done successfully . "
President Donald Trump speaks at the White House while flanked by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo during a briefing on the latest development of the coronavirus outbreak in the U.S.
More
Three chartered flights left Morocco for the United States on Saturday .
Those boarding the flights signed a promissory note to reimburse the federal government for $ 1,485 at a later date .
Federal law requires Americans to pay for the cost of their tickets .
The State Department says the cost of the tickets may be higher than commercial fares .
A flight with 264 Americans on board departed Lima , Peru , on Saturday .
The department said it would arrange for additional charter flights in the coming week .
The State Department said Sunday that anyone needing to board the repatriation flights from Guatemala will need to come to Guatemala City , as the flights may depart on short notice .
The department said Americans should wait for word from the U.S. Embassy before heading for the airport :
" You will not be permitted to enter the airport without confirmation from the U.S. Embassy of a seat on the flight . "
No one with flu - like symptoms will be allowed to board , the department added .
Seats are prioritized for U.S. citizens and their family members , and legal permanent residents .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : US charters flights to evacuate Americans from Guatemala

Woman, 39, dies from coronavirus after passing on test to help others .
2020-03-22 21:03:33 +00:00 .
A woman has died from coronavirus before she was able to get test her results .
Natasha Ott , 39 , from New Orleans , died on March 19 , according to her partner Josh Anderson .
Mr Anderson wrote on Facebook Ms Ott who was “ profoundly kind , passionate , funny and loving ” was in good health , but complained of a cold on March 10 .
Ms Ott had been employed as a social worker with people who were HIV positive at a health clinic .
She was told she was low - risk and was n’t tested .
Mr Anderson said Mrs Ott told him she tried to go to Ochsner Medical Center on March 11 for a coronavirus test .
There were five test kits available but she declined one to prevent someone else from missing out .
Natasha Ott with her partner Josh Anderson .
Source : Facebook/ Josh Anderson
More
Over the next few days , Ms Ott felt ill and eventually got tested for the virus on March 16 but was told it would take five days to get the results .
On March 18 , Mr Anderson went by to visit .
“ I went by that evening to walk Zola ( Ms Ott ’s dog ) , ” he wrote .
“ Natasha was feeling a bit better .
She had more energy than she 'd had in days , and she ended up walking Zola with me .
She did complain that she felt like ' something ' was in her lungs .
She also mentioned that her coronavirus test results were delayed . ”
The following morning , Ms Ott texted her partner : “ Good morning !
I love you . ”
He asked her how she felt to which she replied : “ A little better and hopeful ” .
Ms Ott had complained of having a cold before she died .
Source : Facebook/ Josh Anderson
More
Mr Anderson tried calling her at 6.54pm that day but got no answer .
He visited about 8 pm and knocked on the door but no one answered .
He went around the back of Ms Ott ’s house and found her dead in the kitchen .
“ For those of you not fortunate enough to have known her - know this : it 's an immeasurable loss , ” Mr Anderson wrote .
“ And seeing a woman I knew to be so full of life lying on the floor lifeless was devastating .
I was afraid to touch her .
I held her anyway .
“ Her coronavirus test results have still not come back . ”
US Government ‘ ill - prepared ’ for coronavirus pandemic
Mr Anderson criticised the US Government as being “ ill - prepared ” for the pandemic .
US President Donald Trump angrily defended his handling of the COVID-19 outbreak on Friday .
Among measures Mr Trump announced were the closure of the US border with Mexico .
A swab used by medical workers to administer the coronavirus test at the drive - in center at ProHealth Care in New York .
Source : Getty Images
More
The US is also suspending interest on student loans to help young people cope with job losses and the financial crunch .
Mr Trump scoffed at questions about continued testing shortfalls and deficiencies in medical supplies , suggesting that even mentioning the issues was problematic .
When asked to speak directly to those marooned at home and frightened , Mr Trump voiced objection to the question itself .
Story continues
“ I say that you ’re a terrible reporter , ” Mr Trump said .
“ I think it ’s a very bad signal that you ’re putting out to the American people .
The American people are looking for answers and they ’re looking for hope .
“ And you ’re doing sensationalism . ”
Do you have a story tip ?
Email :
newsroomau@yahoonews.com .
You can also follow us on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play .

Coronavirus could linger in Europe for two years, Chinese expert says .
2020-03-22 17:32:06 +00:00 .
A Chinese expert on infectious diseases said Europe must give up on the idea that the Covid-19 pandemic will be over soon and instead prepare for a battle that could last for up to two years .
The warning – from Zhang Wenhong , head of Shanghai ’s Covid-19 clinical expert team – came as European countries , including Italy , Spain and Germany , are experiencing sharp rises in the number of infections and deaths , while China is working to keep out imported cases after reporting only one new domestic case in the past four days .
“ It would be perfectly normal if the virus comes and goes , and lasts for one or two years , ” Zhang said during a videoconference organised by the Chinese consulate in the German city of Düsseldorf .
“ I can tell you now , forget the idea that the pandemic will come to an end in Europe in the near future , ” he told the audience of mostly Chinese expatriates and students .
Zhang , who is also director of the infectious diseases department at Huashan Hospital of Fudan University in Shanghai , earlier predicted that the epidemic within China would peak between April and June , before falling back in summer , returning sporadically through autumn and winter , and peaking again , though probably on a smaller scale , next spring .
However , as the outbreak was now a pandemic , it was inevitable that it would be prolonged , and exactly when it might be brought under control – be it this summer or next – would depend on the global effort to contain it , he said .
“ To resolve this outbreak in a short period of time , measures have to be extremely radical , ” Zhang said , adding that China was able to impose widespread city lockdowns thanks to the fact that the initial outbreak coincided with the Lunar New Year holiday , when schools and businesses were set to close anyway .
“ If only the whole world could stop moving for four weeks , the pandemic could be stopped , ” he said .
“ But I can not imagine a total global suspension ever possibly happening .
Not even in Germany or Europe . ”
In some of Europe ’s worst - hit areas , like northern Italy , stringent measures like lockdowns , curfews and school closures have already been put in place .
But without simultaneous action around the world , those nations that are imposing control measures would remain exposed to the risk of imported infections , as China had discovered , Zhang said .
As the disease spread wider and the death tolls rose , governments were likely to change their strategies and introduce higher level isolation measures , he said .
“ I see a good trend that governments are becoming more and more proactive , ” he said .
“ As long as the strategies of all countries become increasingly vigorous , effective control of the pandemic is just a matter of time . ”
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus could linger in Europe for two years , Chinese expert says first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Customers can’t get their iPhones back if they left them at an Apple Store before they closed amid the coronavirus pandemic .
2020-03-22 06:45:29 +00:00 .
Andrew Michael / Education Images / Universal Images Group via Getty Images
On March 14th , Apple officially closed every one of its stores outside of China over coronavirus concerns — but stayed open for two days after that just so customers could pick up iPhones or other devices that had been left for repairs .
Apple sent emails and tried to call customers who had devices being repaired at its stores , but some customers could n't be reached , or otherwise could n't make the two - day pick - up window to get their devices .
For customers who missed the two - day pickup window , their iPhones , computers , Apple Watches , and other products are essentially locked up until Apple re - opens its stores — and nobody knows when that might be .
The stores were initially meant to re - open on March 27 , but the new guideline is " until further notice .
" It could be days , weeks , or months .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
On March 14th , Apple officially closed every one of its stores outside of China over coronavirus concerns .
But they technically stayed open for two days after that , just so customers could pick up iPhones or other devices that had been left for repairs , an Apple spokesperson tells Business Insider .
The company tried to contact customers with devices being repaired at Apple Stores via phone and email , the spokesperson said , and many took the chance to pick up their devices .
Inevitably , either some customers missed Apple 's attempts , or the two - day pickup window was n't enough time for them to make the trip .
Some customers did not pick up their devices within the two - day pickup period , and those devices are still in Apple Stores , the spokesperson said .
For those customers , their iPhones , Macs , Apples Watches and other devices are essentially stuck in a closed Apple Store for an undisclosed amount of time .
Apple 's original timeline to re - open its stores was Friday , March 27 .
That 's now changed to " until further notice " as of March 17 .
Unfortunately for those who missed the pickup window , there 's no way for them to get their devices until Apple Stores re - open , the spokesperson said .
As for those who 's devices were sent out to Apple repair centers , the company is getting in touch with those customers to have their devices returned to them , rather than the normal route of having them shipped to an Apple Store for pickup .
Do you have a device that 's stuck indefinitely at an Apple Store during the pandemic ?
I 'd love to hear from you .
Get in touch at : avillasboas@businessinsider.com .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Aulani, Disney's sprawling Hawaii resort, to shutter amid coronavirus concerns .
2020-03-22 03:41:09 +00:00 .
Disney is temporarily shuttering its Hawaiian resort amid the coronavirus outbreak .
Aulani , part of the massive Ko Olina development in Oahu , will close at 5 p.m. local time Tuesday , according to an advisory posted on the resort 's website .
The shutdown will last at least through the end of March .
The decision to close was made out of " an abundance of caution and in the best interests " of its guests and staff , the message noted .
Country - by - country list : Coronavirus travel restrictions around the world
Aulani has 351 hotel rooms , plus 481 Disney Vacation Club timeshare villas .
The resort opened in August 2011 and was expanded in 2013 .
Amenities include a Disney spa , fitness center , pools , waterslides and a kids ' clubhouse .
Reservations for guests who had booked hotel rooms from March 24 - 31 will automatically be canceled , according to the advisory .
Change and cancellation fees will be waived through June 30 .
More : Half of US hotels could close amid coronavirus crisis , industry exec says Disney Vacation Club members with timeshare villa bookings will also have their reservations automatically canceled .
Points will be returned without the customary hold .
Anticipating heavy call volume , the resort 's website advised customers to use the Disney Vacation Club website to find basic information such as the cancellation policy and to modify their reservations through its online booking tool .
Earlier this week , Hawaiian state officials urged visitors to postpone their trips for at least a month to help slow the spread of coronavirus .
Bars and restaurants were closed ; gatherings were limited to no more than 10 people .
Travel in the age of coronavirus :
We answer your questions about air travel , hotels , roads
On Twitter , Lt . Gov. Josh Green , a physician , has called for 14 - day quarantines for residents and visitors coming to the island .
The closure of Aulani is yet another blow for Disney , which has already had to shutter several other properties .
Disneyland and Universal Studios Hollywood temporarily shut down March 14 .
Disney World followed the next day , along with Disney - owned hotels , shopping and dining destinations in both Anaheim , California , and Orlando .
Its Asian parks , Shanghai Disneyland and Hong Kong have been closed since late January , though the Shanghai resort 's website said it planned to resume partial operations on March 9 .
Tokyo Disney followed suit in late February and delayed its reopening , which had been scheduled for March 16 .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Disney Hawaiian resort Aulani to close through March

Coronavirus: 17 new infections confirmed in Hong Kong with 20 more people testing positive .
2020-03-21 19:32:00 +00:00 .
Hong Kong recorded 17 new coronavirus cases on Saturday , with 20 more people testing positive , including a 20 - month - old child .
Ten of the 17 confirmed patients – which take the city total to 273 – have travel history to countries including US , Canada , Peru , Bolivia and Singapore .
The new cases were revealed after health experts warned of a surge in imported and community - spread infections , as Hongkongers returned home from abroad amid the global pandemic .
Dr Chuang Shuk - kwan , head of the communicable disease branch of the Centre for Health Protection , said the total could rise later in the day with 20 people also initially testing positive .
In the regular coronavirus press conference on Saturday , Chuang said the toddler and a total of six students were among the 37 newly confirmed as infected or testing preliminarily positive .
The 20 - month - old child was among a group who had attended a wedding in March 14 .
The toddler ’s parents and the groom have been infected .
Three more people who visited Canada and Bolivia on a tour were also confirmed , taking the total number of those infected in the group to five .
Two other participants have tested initially positive .
Dr Linda Yu Wai - ling , a chief manager from the Hospital Authority , said three more Covid-19 patients had been discharged in the past 24 hours .
So far 101 people have recovered .
Yu said as of 3 pm on Saturday , 88 people who arrived at the airport with respiratory symptoms had been referred for further Covid-19 checks at a temporary test centre at AsiaWorld - Expo , which was opened to handle the influx of people returning from overseas .
Another 13 people were sent to the other temporary centre at North Lantau Hospital .
Six of the total tested across both centres were confirmed as infected .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : 17 new infections confirmed in Hong Kong with 20 more people testing positive first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Windsor man flies to Ecuador on same day WHO declares COVID-19 a pandemic, stuck ever since .
2020-03-21 13:04:48 +00:00 .
When Eris Cubias — along with five friends — flew from Windsor , Ont . to a small town in Ecuador , his plans were simple : " hang out " and attend a friend 's wedding .
That 's not to say that news of the coronavirus pandemic was non - existent when they flew out on March 11 .
In fact , that 's the same day the World Health Organization declared the outbreak as a " pandemic . "
By then , coronavirus cases were spiking throughout Europe and Asia — but in Ecuador , there had only been 15 confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported in the South American country .
" We actually did discuss and thought about cancelling this trip [ before flying out ] .
But we were being optimistic and positive about it , " said Cubias , adding he purchased insurance on his ticket to cover the costs of last - minute flight changes .
" Plus , we had a wedding to come to , so we figured we 'd just go and if things get worse , we 'll just change our flight . "
It was n't until he landed that Cubias and his friends learned of the WHO 's declaration .
Just days afterward , things changed quickly .
Bars and restaurants in Ecuador were shut down .
The pool at his hotel was closed .
Nearby beaches were covered in red emergency flags .
" Everything just picked up really quickly and we just got stuck in our own rooms .
We tried to go back to the airport to change the flights back .
But at that point , we could n't make it because there was too many people trying to get back , " said Cubias .
" We could n't get on the last plane that was available — and then they just shut down the airport here . "
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Friday that a flight would be arranged to bring home Canadians stranded in Morocco .
A spokesperson with the Foreign Affairs Minister 's office said the government is particularly concerned about travellers in Morocco and Peru — where a large number of Canadians are stranded .
There 's been no word , however , on when Canadians stuck in Ecuador will be able to come home .
" Every time we call the airlines , they say that we 're gon na be stuck here until May.
That 's very discouraging and [ left us ] feeling hopeless because I call the embassy here as well and they do n't really say much other than to just contact the airlines . "
Four days after landing in Ecuador , Cubias and his friends checked out early from their hotel and rented out a hostel to save money .
Now , they 're exhausting their savings to continue to pay for their stay .
The Ecuadorian government has placed restrictions on virtually all movement throughout the country , with very limited exceptions .
We actually did discuss and thought about cancelling this trip [ before flying out ] .
But we were being optimistic and positive about it . -
Eris Cubias
" We 're locked down here ...
They allow people to go to their jobs or for something that 's an emergency , like buying supplies .
There 's roadblocks and everything during the day .
And then , at night , the police are just flying around everywhere . "
Cubias said he 's been left without any options in his attempts to get back home .
The Canadian Embassy in Quito has n't provided much information and calls to their airline often get disconnected .
" It 's very hard ...
Most of my friends here have children that depend on them .
I have a mortgage and a business to run back home .
So we 're pretty devastated to find out that there 's nothing we can do , " said Cubias .
" We really feel like like we 're abandoned here .
We just want to get back home . "

US senators accused of selling shares before coronavirus market crash .
2020-03-21 12:59:12 +00:00 .
Several US senators unloaded large numbers of shares just before the coronavirus crisis caused the US stock market to crash , it has been revealed .
Richard Burr , Republican chairman of the Senate intelligence committee , sold up to $ 1.7 million worth in more than 30 separate transactions in late January and mid - February , shortly before the market began to fall .
Mr Burr responded to calls for his resignation , saying he had relied " solely on public news reports " to make the decision , specifically coverage on the CNBC business news channel .
But he asked the Senate ethics committee to carry out an investigation because of the " the assumption many could make in hindsight . "
On Jan 24 the Senate health committee , on which Mr Burr also sits , held a private briefing for senators with infectious diseases expert Dr Anthony Fauci .
According to Senate records Mr Burr sold most of his shares , including ones in hotel chains Wyndham Hotels and Resorts and Extended Stay America , on Feb 13 .
Shortly after that he made a speech to a private audience suggesting the virus was more aggressive " than anything that we have seen in recent history " and " probably more akin to the 1918 pandemic . "
Those remarks , which were leaked to the media , appeared to paint a worse picture than Mr Burr had given publicly .
His share sales were first disclosed by the investigative news organisation ProPublica and The Center for Responsive Politics .
Democrats called Mr Burr 's actions " stomach churning " but he denied any wrongdoing .
In a statement he said : " I relied solely on public news reports to guide my decision regarding the sale of stocks on Feb 13 . "
Specifically , I closely followed CNBC 's daily health and science reporting out of its Asia bureaus at the time . "
It also emerged that Kelly Loeffler , a Republican senator from Georgia , sold between $ 1.28 million and $ 3.1 million in shares from Jan 24 through mid - February .
She had tweeted about attending the Jan 24 health committee meeting .
However , Ms Loeffler said financial advisers sold the shares and she only found out three weeks after it happened .
She said : " This is a ridiculous and baseless attack .
I do not make investment decisions for my portfolio .
Investment decisions are made by multiple third - party advisers without my , or my husband 's , knowledge or involvement . "
Senate records showed the Democrat senator Dianne Feinstein sold $ 1.5 million to $ 6 million worth of shares in a biotech company from Jan 31 .
Ms Feinstein said her shares were in a blind trust and she had no involvement in the sales .
Jim Inhofe , a Republican senator from Oklahoma , who sold $ 400,000 worth on Jan 27 , also said he had no personal involvement in his investment decisions .
Tucker Carlson , a Fox News host known to be watched by Donald Trump , said : " Maybe there is an honest explanation for what he ( Mr Burr ) did .
If there is , he should share it with the rest of us immediately .
Otherwise , he must resign from the Senate and face prosecution for insider trading .
"
There is no greater moral crime than betraying your country in a time of crisis . "

Mike Pence's office abruptly cancels CDC official's interview on coronavirus .
2020-03-21 11:58:14 +00:00 .
Vice President Mike Pence ’s office has abruptly canceled my scheduled interview with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) Principal Deputy Director , Dr. Anne Schuchat , as the White House looks to control the flow of information about COVID-19 .
Officials at the CDC were unhappy with the decision .
I was scheduled to tape an interview for my “ Influencers with Andy Serwer ” series at 1 p.m. on Thursday .
The CDC informed us it was told to cancel an hour prior to the interview , which had been approved by HHS officials a week ago .
Schuchat , one of the nation ’s leading experts on infectious diseases , has been the CDC ’s principal deputy director since September 2015 , according to the CDC website .
She played key roles in CDC emergency responses including the 2009 H1N1 pandemic influenza response , the 2003 SARS outbreak in Beijing , and the 2001 bioterrorist anthrax response .
Globally , she has worked on meningitis , pneumonia , and Ebola vaccine trials in West Africa , and conducted surveillance and prevention projects in South Africa .
An ‘ uncertain ’ trajectory ahead
The Washington Post reported Thursday that the CDC has been increasingly sidelined as the White House Task Force seeks to control the narrative around the novel coronavirus .
President Donald Trump tapped Pence to lead the government ’s response to the coronavirus in February , while also telling the public that the risk to Americans was “ very low . ”
U.S. President Donald Trump listens as Dr. Anne Schuchat , Principal Deputy Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) gives a news conference at the White House in Washington , U.S. , February 26 , 2020 .
REUTERS /
Carlos Barria
More
Schuchat shared a podium with Trump and Pence when the vice president ’s appointment was announced on Feb. 26 , but her statement on the virus was graver than the president ’s .
“ Our aggressive containment strategy here in the United States has been working and is responsible for the low levels of cases that we have so far .
However , we do expect more cases , ” she said , according to The New York Times .
“ The trajectory of what we ’re looking at over the weeks and months ahead is very uncertain . ”
Trump later that day said he did n’t think it was “ inevitable ” that the virus would spread .
And , as the Post reported on Thursday , neither Schuchat nor CDC Director Robert Redfield have appeared in White House briefings on the coronavirus for over a week .
Now , at least in this case , they are being prohibited from speaking at all .
Schuchat has had a long tenure at the CDC .
She served as acting CDC director from January - July 2017 and February - March 2018 .
She also served as director of CDC ’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases from 2006 - 2015 and chief of the Respiratory Diseases Branch from 1998 - 2005 .
She joined CDC as an Epidemic Intelligence Service officer in 1988 .
Andy Serwer is editor - in - chief of Yahoo Finance .
Follow him on Twitter : @serwer .
Read more
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance

Majority of Britons support extending Brexit transition period amid coronavirus outbreak, new poll shows .
2020-03-21 11:49:08 +00:00 .
The majority of Britons want the Brexit transition period to be extended after negotiations were put on ice due to the coronavirus outbreak , a new poll shows .
Britain left the EU on 31 January but remains in a transition period until the end of the year , allowing negotiators on both sides to hammer out a vital trade deal .
Senior figures in Brussels had warned that the 11 - month period was too short to strike such a complex agreement even before the coronavirus crisis hit .
But Boris Johnson repeatedly insisted that he would not authorise a delay and enshrined the deadline in law - in an attempt to keep his election pledge to " Get Brexit Done " .
As the coronavirus outbreak grips the country , a new YouGov survey found 55 per cent of people now support an extension to the 31 December deadline , with a quarter ( 24 per cent ) still opposed and 21 per cent saying they do not know .
More than a third of Leave voters ( 36 per cent ) backed a delay , with 44 per cent opposed , while nearly eight in 10 Remain voters ( 79 per cent ) supported an extension .
Conservative voters were divided on whether to kick back the December 31 deadline , with 44 per cent opposed and 39 per cent in support .
An overwhelming majority of Labour voters ( 73 per cent ) supported a delay , with only 6 per cent opposed , while 85 per cent of Liberal Democrats also backed an extension .
Many in Brussels are now expecting a change in the prime minister 's stance after the latest round of talks was delayed due to the outbreak .
The EU has made it clear it is open to a request for an extension .
In a further blow to progress , the EU 's chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier was diagnosed with coronavirus and his UK counterpart David Frost is self isolating after displaying symptoms .
Mr Barnier 's entire 100 - strong team is self - isolating , an EU source told AFP , and British civil servants are being diverted to focus on the coronavirus crisis .
Asked about the transition at a Downing Street press conference this week , the prime minister said : " It ’s not a subject that ’s being regularly discussed , I can tell you , in Downing Street at the moment.​
“ And we ’re getting on with it .
There ’s legislation in place that I have no intention of changing . "
The exit deadline of 11 pm on 31 December is set out in the European Union ( Withdrawal Agreement ) Act passed by parliament earlier this year .
Source note : YouGov surveyed 1619 British adults between 19 - 20 March .
Read more
Johnson ‘ putting his head in the sand ’ over coronavirus Brexit threat

Aust virus cases pass 1000 after NSW jump .
2020-03-21 06:30:48 +00:00 .
The number of coronavirus cases in NSW has ballooned to 436 after 83 new cases were identified in the state , taking the national total past the 1000 mark .
The increase comes as the NSW government discovered four cases of cruise ships disembarking in Sydney having had infected passengers on board .
It represents a spike in the number of new COVID-19 diagnoses - with 46 recorded in NSW in the 24 hours to 8 pm Thursday night before the 83 new cases were discovered in the 24 hours up until 8 pm Friday night .
" The majority of cases diagnosed in NSW were either acquired overseas or are a contact of a known case , " NSW Health said .
" Seventy - four cases have been locally acquired without an identified source of infection .
Investigations to establish any links between cases in order to prevent further spread are ongoing . "
Meanwhile , NSW Health is scrambling to contact thousands of people who were onboard four cruise ships which visited Sydney this month , which carried passengers which were infected with coronavirus .
It comes a day after it was revealed that the Ruby Princess ship was allowed to dock in Sydney with four people carrying the potentially deadly virus .
Like the Ruby Princess , in all cases passengers were allowed to disembark without being tested .
Two of the cases happened on two separate journeys of the Voyager of the Seas , with the other two cases coming on the Ovation of the Seas and the Celebrity Solstice .
" The risk assessment processes developed by NSW Health for cruise ships have been far in excess of those in other jurisdictions , " NSW Health said .
" All travellers from international cruises must self - quarantine for 14 days after disembarkation . "
Meanwhile , the NSW government has signed a public health order to restrict movement to Lord Howe Island .
Beginning at 5 am Sunday morning , access to the island will be restricted to locals , health and other essential service workers .
People arriving on the island will be made to self quarantine for 14 days with the order to run to at least June 18 .

International travel chaos: Travelers being repatriated from Morocco; disembarking troubles in Johannesburg .
2020-03-21 03:29:34 +00:00 .
Countries across the globe have imposed a variety of travel restrictions in an effort to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus .
The U.S. State Department advised Americans not to travel abroad at all , the strongest U.S. alert yet .
The department on Thursday issued a Level 4 advisory for travel abroad – " do not travel . "
The advisory came a day after the closure of the U.S.-Canada border .
Talk of closing the U.S.-Mexico border is ongoing .
But other countries have gone even further – some locking down travel in and out of the country completely .
South Africa ’s largest airport announced Friday that foreigners would not be allowed to disembark as the country 's coronavirus cases neared .
And state - owned South African Airways suspended all international flights until June .
“ The aircraft will be contained at an isolated bay with all officials ensuring the utmost care is taken , ” O.R. Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg said , following up on the government ’s announcement of travel restrictions days ago while declaring a national disaster .
“ We are working with the airline to ensure that foreign nationals return to the country of origin . ”
An elderly passenger arrives in a wheelchair at Johannesburg 's O.R. Tambo International Airport , Monday , March 16 , 2020 , a day after President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a national state of disaster .
South Africa will close 35 of its 53 land borders and will intensify screening at its international airports .
More
The Johannesburg airport is the busiest in Africa .
Foreigners across the continent have faced the increasing chance of being stranded as countries close borders and block flights .
Travelers rush to Moroccan airports for evacuation flights
Meanwhile , foreigners stranded in locked - down Morocco are getting on evacuation flights Friday as governments try to repatriate their citizens after days of travel frustration .
Visitors from around the world have found themselves stuck in Morocco since the North African country suspended all international passenger flights and passenger ships to and from its territory beginning Sunday .
The U.S. government announced special chartered flights for U.S. citizens leaving Friday , after growing complaints from several hundred American students and tourists scattered in cities around Morocco .
Passengers line up to board one of the few flights out of Morocco in Marrakech , Thursday , March 19 , 2020 .
Morocco suspended all international passenger flights and passengers ships to and from its territory on Sunday .
Since then , citizens from all over the world found themselves stuck in the touristic country .
More
Some have been sleeping on floors in the Marrakech airport , or holed up in one of the last hotels open in Rabat .
American tourists and students told The Associated Press on Thursday that the U.S. government had done little to help them , and they were forced to seek guidance from other governments or find their own way home despite limited escape routes .
The U.S. ambassador tweeted a video promising to help , and the evacuation flights were announced overnight .
There are stranded travelers of all nationalities around the world , but evacuation assistance and guidance has varied widely from government to government .
In its latest figures , Morocco lists 63 confirmed coronavirus cases , including two deaths .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus travel :
In Africa , some travelers denied , head home

Air pollution clearing due to coronavirus lockdowns .
2020-03-21 01:08:45 +00:00 .
In countries and regions that have been under strict lockdowns to stop the spread of the coronavirus , an unintended consequence is visible from space .
As businesses , industrial sites and factories closed , and cars and trucks stayed off the roads , the amount of pollution being generated in countries like China and Italy dropped dramatically .
Satellite footage shows a dramatic reduction in air pollution over China and Italy between December 2019 and March 2020 amid the # coronavirus outbreak pic.twitter.com/lweAzUU7i3 —
CBS This Morning ( @CBSThisMorning ) March 19 , 2020
Images from the European Space Agency 's Copernicus satellite , released on Thursday , show that nitrogen dioxide emissions — a serious air pollutant and a powerful warming chemical — fell by 40 % over Chinese cities between December 20 and March 16 .
" As nitrogen dioxide is primarily produced by traffic and factories , it is a first - level indicator of industrial activity worldwide , " Josef Aschbacher , ESA 's director of Earth Observation Programmes , said in a statement .
" What is clearly visible is a significant reduction of nitrogen dioxide levels over China , caused by reduced activity due to COVID-19 restrictions , but also the Chinese New Year in January . "
The initial drop shown in the animation coincided with Lunar New Year celebrations , a national holiday in China which usually sees a drop in emissions each year .
But this year 's decline lasted longer than usual as authorities imposed lockdowns to contain the virus .
china-trop-2020056.png
More
NASA Earth Observatory images , based on data from the European Space Agency 's Copernicus satellite , show nitrogen dioxide emissions dramatically reduced over central China as the coronavirus outbreak brought cities to a standstill .
NASA Earth Observatory
" This is the first time I have ever seen such a dramatic drop - off over such a wide area for a specific event , " NASA air quality researcher Fei Liu said on NASA 's Earth Observatory blog .
Italy , which has now exceeded China as the country with the most deaths from coronavirus , has been under an emergency nationwide lockdown since March 9 .
It has also recorded a significant drop in nitrogen dioxide emissions related to reduced auto traffic and industrial activity .
Satellite images show that the most dramatic decline of air pollution was observed over northern Italy , the first region in the country to go on lockdown .
Coronavirus : nitrogen dioxide emissions drop over Italy by European Space Agency , ESA on YouTube
As of Friday , the pandemic has killed more than 11,000 people worldwide and the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases is rapidly climbing .
There are more than 16,000 confirmed cases in the United States and over 258,000 cases globally , according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins .
China 's health ministry says the city of Wuhan — the original epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic — and the surrounding Hubei province reported no new cases in the last 24 hours , providing hope in the global fight against the virus .
Celebrities livestream story time for kids stuck at home
New York Governor Cuomo shuts down " non - essential " businesses amid coronavirus outbreak China defends expulsion of U.S. journalists amid coronavirus crisis

Vic waives payroll tax in business package .
2020-03-21 00:06:32 +00:00 .
Thousands of Victorian businesses will have payroll tax payments refunded and waived for the rest of this financial year to help them survive coronavirus under a $ 1.7 billion support package .
Businesses with payrolls up to $ 3 million can expect the refunds within days , Premier Daniel Andrews announced on Saturday .
" This has never happened before , it is unprecedented , it is unique , it is exactly what Victorian businesses have asked for , " he said .
Payroll tax for the first quarter of the next financial year will also be deferred as part of a support package for businesses .
About 24,000 businesses are included in the package .
The package also includes a $ 500 million fund to support industries hardest hit by the virus and self - isolation .
It will include hardship payments and small grants with allocation determined in partnership with the state government , Australian Hotels Association , Australian Industry Group and other sector groups , Mr Andrews said .
He said another $ 600 million will be spent on a range of measures including waiving liquor licence payments - worth $ 30 million - due at the end of this month .
" That is $ 30 million well spent to send confidence and cash in effect back to those businesses , " Mr Andrews said .
It will also be spent re - employing people who have lost their jobs into virus - related work , including delivering packages , cleaning trains and trams .
" It just makes common sense to re - employ people who find themselves out of work in order to give them the prospects that they need , the support they need and for us to get the tasks that are so important done , " he said .
Further support for households has n't been ruled out , Mr Andrews said .
Meanwhile Victorian public school holidays will be extended by two days to allow teachers to make plans for flexible learning arrangements , including remote learning .
The days off will bookend holidays , with the final day of term one now Thursday March 26 .
Students will come back for term two from Wednesday April 15 .
Mr Andrews said Victorian schools would remain open until expert advice said otherwise .
" My kids are at school , the chief health officer 's kids are at school , " he said .
" That 's the medical advice , that 's the advice of experts .
That could change - if it does , you will be the first to know . "
He also called on people to continue to follow other health advice including washing hands , isolating if they exhibit symptoms and social distancing .
While frustrating , those measures would save lives , he said .
" There is no joking about this .
If we do n't flatten the curve and suppress the number of people testing positive and the spread of the virus , hospitals will be overwhelmed and that means people will die , " he said .
The number of confirmed case in Victoria increased by 51 overnight to 229 .
They include a police officer in Suburban Melbourne and a second Melbourne University staff member who returned from overseas before the government 's mandatory quarantine period for travellers .
Australia 's borders closed on Friday night , meaning non - Australian residents , citizens or immediate family members travelling from overseas are no longer permitted entry .

Biggest Utility Bankruptcy in U.S. History Is Nearing an End .
2020-03-20 23:56:13 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The biggest utility bankruptcy in U.S. history appears to be drawing to a close after PGE Corp. reached a deal with California Governor Gavin Newsom over the company ’s restructuring plan .
The agreement calls for PGE to put itself up for sale if the bankruptcy court does n’t approve its plan by June 30 or if the company fails to emerge from Chapter 11 by the end of the year , according to a statement Friday .
The deal also requires the embattled utility to overhaul its board and submit to additional state oversight .
“ This is the end of business as usual for PGE , ” Newsom said in a statement .
“ We secured a totally transformed board and leadership structure for the company . ”
PGE shares rose as much as 17 % after the close of regular trading Friday .
PGE has struggled for months to craft a reorganization proposal that would satisfy both creditors and state officials after filing for Chapter 11 last year facing $ 30 billion in damages from wildfires blamed on its power lines .
The consent from Newsom , who objected to earlier versions of PGE ’s turnaround plan , greatly boosts the odds the utility will exit bankruptcy by a state deadline of June 30 .
PGE Chief Executive Officer Bill Johnson said the company appreciates the governor ’s support .
“ We now look to the California Public Utilities Commission to approve the plan , ” Johnson said in the statement .
PGE also agreed to freeze its dividends for about three years , which will contribute an estimated $ 4 billion in equity that , among other things , can help pay down debt .
It also agreed to use shareholder funds to offset charges to customers bills for a $ 7.5 billion securitization designed to speed up payments to fire victims .
The deal with Newsom comes as the governor and other officials have turned nearly all their attention to fighting the coronavirus .
California has been one of the U.S. centers of the pandemic .
Newsom on Thursday took the dramatic step of ordering all residents to isolate themselves at home to limit the virus ’s spread .
Read More : PGE Glides Toward Bankruptcy Exit While State Fights Virus
Previously , the utility had pledged reforms including replacing some directors , tying executive pay more closely to safety metrics and dividing up its operations into regional units to better respond to local concerns .
PGE will also have to submit to a proposal that could lead to a state takeover of the company if it fails to make safety improvements over time .
And it must allow a state - appointed “ operational observer ” to oversee the company ’s progress on safety before exits bankruptcy .
PGE already had made peace with bondholders including Elliott Management Corp. and Pacific Investment Management Corp. , which had been threatening to take over the utility with a rival restructuring proposal .
Previously , the company struck settlements with wildfire victims , their insurers and local government agencies affected by the blazes .
PGE ’s reorganization still needs approval from the judge overseeing its bankruptcy and from the state utility commission , whose members are appointed by the governor .
( Updates with agreement details starting in the seventh paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

U.S. Airlines Rush to Cut Costs While Congress Studies Bailout .
2020-03-20 22:44:33 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
U.S. airlines are rushing to cut costs as Congress weighs a $ 58 billion bailout to help the industry cope with collapsing travel demand from the coronavirus pandemic .
United Airlines Holdings Inc. said it will begin laying off employees in less than two weeks unless lawmakers approve aid , while Southwest Airlines Co. is slashing more flights .
Delta Air Lines Inc. suspended its dividend and share repurchase program hours after President Donald Trump said he wants a ban on stock buybacks for companies receiving federal aid .
“ While many in Washington , D.C. , now realize the gravity of this situation , time is running out , ” United Chief Executive Officer Oscar Munoz and President Scott Kirby said Friday in a memo to employees that warned job cuts could start by March 31 .
The Chicago - based carrier has trimmed 60 % of its typical schedule for April , and more cuts are likely in May , the executives said .
Airlines are broadening actions to prop up their battered operations , from securing billions in new loans to limiting onboard amenities to help minimize costs .
The industry is adamant that federal aid is essential , but is n’t pleased that a Senate proposal offers $ 58 billion in loans that will have to be repaid .
Airlines for America , the industry lobbying group , wants half of the amount in direct grants .
Seeking Liquidity Delta entered into a $ 2.6 billion secured credit facility , enhancing liquidity amid a daily cash burn of $ 50 million as travel demand continues to decline at an unprecedented rate .
The company is also drawing $ 3 billion under its existing revolving credit facilities .
Several carriers have said they ’re refunding more in canceled travel reservations than they ’re selling in new tickets .
“ Our revenue outlook continues to deteriorate in the short term with the decline in travel demand , ” Delta CEO Ed Bastian said in a note to employees .
“ We ’re now projecting our June quarter revenues will be down by $ 10 billion compared to a year ago – an 80 % reduction . ”
Given damage to the overall economy from spread of the virus , it ’s clear “ that demand recovery will take an extended period once the virus is contained , ” he said .
While more than 13,000 Delta employees have agreed to take voluntary leaves , Bastian urged more to consider doing so .
Domestic Cuts Southwest , which carries the most passengers in domestic markets , said it will cut 1,000 daily flights starting Sunday , ahead of a previously planned 20 % capacity reduction , because of a rapid drop in near - term demand .
International routes will be suspended after Sunday until at least May 4 as a growing number of nations restrict cross - border travel .
The latest cutback , affecting about a quarter of Southwest ’s normal daily departures , will run through April 13 .
At that point , the 20 % curtailment begins and lasts through June 5 , the carrier said in a statement Friday .
The airline will target routes that have multiple daily flights and those with the lowest bookings .
International service will be dropped after Sunday until at least May 4 .
The airline also had to cancel most of its daily flights Friday from Chicago ’s Midway International Airport , where the air traffic control tower had to be temporarily closed after three technicians tested positive for the virus .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

A uninsured cancer patient who tested positive for COVID-19 was billed $34,927.43 .
2020-03-20 22:38:02 +00:00 .
AP Photo / Mic Smith Danni Askini tested positive for coronavirus after three trips to the ER and was billed nearly $ 35,000 for her tests and treatment .
Now recovered , Askini has applied for Medicaid and is hoping the program will retroactively cover her bills .
The US government has since passed a law that makes coronavirus testing free , but treatment can still be expensive .
Visit Insider 's homepage for more stories .
In February , Danni Askini started feeling chest pain , shortness of breath , and a migraine .
She 'd been undergoing treatment for lymphoma , so she called her oncologist to talk about her new symptoms .
The doctor told her to go to the emergency room , suspecting a possible issue with her new medication , Askini told Time Magazine .
Doctors at the Boston - area hospital told her she likely had pneumonia and sent her home .
In the days that followed , her temperature wavered sharply and she developed a concerning cough .
After two more trips to the ER , she was finally tested for coronavirus .
Three days later , the results came back positive , she told Time .
Then the bill came : $ 34,927.43 .
" I was pretty sticker - shocked , " Askini told Time 's Abigail Abrams .
" I personally do n't know anybody who has that kind of money . "
Askini , who has been active on Twitter about her diagnosis , tweeted on March 14 that she had recovered from the coronavirus and flu .
She also applied for Medicaid and is hoping the program will cover her bills retroactively , according to Time .
At the time , she was uninsured , waiting for her new job to begin .
Since Askini 's hospital visits , the US government has passed the Families First Coronavirus Response Act , which provides free coronavirus testing .
Still , according to a recent analysis from the Kaiser Family Foundation , patients could be on the hook for thousands in other expenses related to treatment , including the common ER visits , outpatient visits , and urgent care visits .
Kaiser estimated that the average cost of COVID-19 pneumonia treatment for someone with employer insurance would be about $ 9,763 if they did n't have complications .
If they did have issues during treatment , their bill could be around $ 20,292 , according to the estimate .
The average cost for treatment for COVID-19 can cost thousands , according to an analysis from FAIR Health .
Average medical costs associated with coronavirus .
More Business Insider
You do n't have to test positive for this pandemic to get expensive
You might not even have to test positive for COVID-19 to be financially burdened by the pandemic .
One Miami man who had traveled to China in February for work came home with flu symptoms .
Under normal circumstances , because he did n't have high - quality insurance coverage , Osmel Martinez Azcue would have taken some over - the - counter medicine and waited it out , he told the Miami Herald .
Knowing that the coronavirus was a concern , he went to the ER to be screened .
He did n't get a coronavirus test , but was tested for the flu .
That alone resulted in a $ 3,270 bill .
" How can they expect normal citizens to contribute to eliminating the potential risk of person - to - person spread if hospitals are waiting to charge us $ 3,270 for a simple blood test and a nasal swab ? "
Azcue told the Herald at the time .
The coronavirus has infected more than 14,250 in the US and killed at least 205 .
Most who have the coronavirus will experience mild symptoms and not require hospitalization .
Some may not even know they have it .
Read the original article on Insider

Italy once again reported the highest single-day death toll for any country since the coronavirus outbreak sparked: 627 deaths .
2020-03-20 22:14:36 +00:00 .
Emanuele Cremaschi / Getty Images Italy on Friday reported 627 coronavirus deaths : That 's the largest single - day jump in the four weeks since the COVID-19 outbreak began in the European nation .
Just two days prior , Italy confirmed 475 deaths , which was then the highest death toll reported in one day by any country since the coronavirus outbreak first began .
On Thursday , when Italy 's death toll was 3,405 , it overtook China as the country with the most coronavirus deaths .
So far , there have been 47,021 infections in Italy and 4,032 deaths .
The country of 60 million people is on lockdown and Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said it 's likely that the quarantine will be extended past the original end - date of April 3 .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Italy on Friday reported 627 deaths from the coronavirus in one day , which marks the hard - hit European nation 's largest single - day jump .
This death toll surpassed a calamitous milestone Italy had set only two days prior with 475 deaths , which was until then the highest death toll reported in one day by any country since the COVID-19 outbreak originated in Wuhan , China , last year .
So far , there have been 47,021 infections in Italy and 4,032 deaths .
On Thursday , Italy 's death toll hit 3,405 and overtook China as the country with the most coronavirus deaths .
The virus has caused 3,253 deaths in China , based on data compiled by John Hopkins University .
Even at the height of China 's outbreak , its highest single - day death toll was 150 , on February 23 .
On March 18 , China did not report any local COVID-19 cases for the first time since the outbreak began .
In the days since , four deaths have been reported there .
' The total blockade will go on '
Lombardy and another region Veneto reported cases on the same day .
Their responses , however , differed , with Veneto testing even asymptomatic residents and isolating people who tested positive for the virus .
By contrast , Lombardy was slower in testing those who did n't present with symptims .
In the month since , Lombardy has become the country 's coronavirus epicenter , proving the need for testing and isolating .
Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte put the nation 's 60 million residents on lockdown on March 10 .
Only grocery stores and pharmacies are allowed to operate .
The quarantine was supposed to end on April 3 , but Conte told Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera that the lockdown will be prolonged , without specifying until when .
" The total blockade will go on .
The measures taken — both the closure of [ public ] activities and the ones concerning schools — can only be extended , " Conte said , according to CNBC .
Meanwhile , Italy 's healthcare system is crumbling under the strain of a never - ending stream of patients , lack of beds , and lack of medical resources .
And doctors are reportedly prioritizing younger , healthier patients who have a higher survival rate .
A Sky News video from the Papa Giovanni XXIII hospital in Italy 's worst - hit city , Bergamo , paints a heartbreaking picture : Hospital wards are packed , with patients spilling out into the corridors .
There 's no respite for overwhelmed doctors and nurses .
The coronavirus has infected more than 265,000 people worldwide and killed at least 11,100 others .
Read the original article on Business Insider

The IRS’ New Tax-Filing Deadline Is July 15. Here’s What to Know Now .
2020-03-20 21:57:47 +00:00 .
The U.S. government is extending the tax - filing deadline to July 15 , a move meant to give taxpayers extra time to deal with their taxes amid the coronavirus outbreak .
Taxpayers now have an extra three months to both file and pay their taxes .
“ All taxpayers and businesses will have this additional time to file and make payments without interest or penalties , ” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a tweet Friday morning .
The announcement came three days after the IRS said that many Americans could defer paying any taxes owed until July 15 but would still have to file their tax returns by April 15 .
The IRS has not yet issued formal guidelines on Friday ’s change .
Those guidelines could detail whether taxpayers will also get more time to make deductible contributions to IRAs or health savings accounts for 2019 , for example , as well as whether people who owe other taxes such as gift tax or estate tax get more time .
They also could address whether taxpayers can get extensions beyond the new July 15 deadline ( and if so , for how long ) .
In the meantime , there are a few things taxpayers can do now .
1 .
If you ’re getting a refund , go ahead and file
Even though taxpayers now have extra time , they should still be gathering paperwork and preparing to file their returns .
Those who are expecting a refund probably should file as quickly as possible , as the IRS is continuing to process returns and issue checks .
“ I encourage all taxpayers who may have tax refunds to file now to get your money , ” Mnuchin said in another tweet on Friday .
If you are expecting a refund , you ’re likely to get it faster if you file your return electronically and opt for direct deposit .
2 .
If you expect to owe taxes , do n’t put it all off
For taxpayers who expect to owe , the extra time may provide some critical breathing room cash - wise , especially if they ’re currently out of work , says Kathleen Kaminski , a certified public accountant and senior manager at Grossman St. Amour , an accounting firm in Syracuse , New York .
But that should n’t be an invitation to put off all things taxes altogether .
“ Better to continue to gather tax information … while [ it is ] more fresh on their mind , ” she says .
“ The longer one waits , the harder it is to get back into it . ”
3 .
Check when your state return is due , too
Depending on where you live , you might still have to pay taxes owed to your state by April 15 , or on some other date now .
For example , last week California pushed some deadlines to June 15 and has since moved it to July 15 .
The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants is keeping a list of the deadline changes by state .
“ A few states have already provided some guidance , like California , but it might be a while before we have a consensus , or for that matter , consistency , ” says Gary DuBoff , a certified public accountant at MBAF , an accounting firm in New York .
4 .
Be patient with your tax preparer
Tax preparers are dealing with the same stresses many Americans are facing in light of the coronavirus .
Many are working from home , and now they ’re also figuring out how these last - minute changes affect their clients and the mechanics of tax filing .
“ Just be cognizant of using secure methods of providing personal documents to your tax pros .
Most should have secure methods of receiving documents , ” says Matt Keefer , a certified public accountant and director of tax services at accounting firm Gorfine Schiller Gardyn in Owings Mills , Maryland .
More
From NerdWallet
Tina Orem is a writer at NerdWallet .
Email :
torem@nerdwallet.com .
The article The IRS ’ New Tax - Filing Deadline Is July 15 .
Here ’s What to Know Now originally appeared on NerdWallet .

Biggest U.S. Utility Bankruptcy Nears End As Newsom Backs PG&E .
2020-03-20 21:29:20 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The biggest utility bankruptcy in U.S. history is drawing to a close after PGE Corp. reached a deal with California Governor Gavin Newsom over the company ’s restructuring plan .
As part of the agreement , the embattled utility will overhaul its board and state regulators will gain increased oversight of the company , according to a bankruptcy court filing Friday .
If PGE fails to emerge from Chapter 11 by June 30 , it will appoint a “ chief transition officer ” and begin a process to sell the company , according to the agreement .
“ This is the end of business as usual for PGE , ” Newsom said in a statement .
“ We secured a totally transformed board and leadership structure for the company , real accountability tools to ensure safety and reliability and billions more in contributions from shareholders to ensure safety upgrades are achieved . ”
PGE shares rose as much as 4.7 % after regular trading ended on Wall Street .
PGE has struggled for months to craft a reorganization proposal that would satisfy both creditors and state officials after filing for Chapter 11 last year facing $ 30 billion in damages from wildfires blamed on its power lines .
The consent from Newsom , who objected to earlier versions of PGE ’s turnaround plan , greatly boosts the odds the utility will exit bankruptcy by a state - imposed deadline of June 30 .
The deal with Newsom comes as the governor and other officials have turned nearly all their attention to fighting the coronavirus .
California has been one of the U.S. centers of the outbreak .
Newsom on Thursday took the dramatic step of ordering all residents to isolate themselves at home to limit the virus ’s spread , the country ’s strictest effort so far .
Read More : PGE Glides Toward Bankruptcy Exit While State Fights Virus
Previously , the utility had pledged reforms including replacing some directors , tying executive pay more closely to safety metrics and dividing up its operations into regional units to better respond to local concerns .
PGE has also said it ’s open to a proposal that would let California regulators take greater control of the company if it gets into trouble again .
PGE already had made peace with bondholders including Elliott Management Corp. and Pacific Investment Management Corp. , who had been threatening to take over the utility with a rival restructuring proposal .
Previously , the company struck settlements with wildfire victims , their insurers and local government agencies affected by the blazes .
PGE ’s reorganization still needs approval from the judge overseeing its bankruptcy and from a state utility commission , whose members are appointed by the governor .
Newsom said earlier versions of PGE ’s turnaround plan failed to adequately address his concerns over the utility ’s governance and financing .
For months , Newsom has raised the specter of a state takeover unless PGE met his demands .
Newsom wanted to see PGE ’s board replaced and called for a provision that would allow for the state to take control of the company ’s assets if it failed to meet certain performance goals .
The utility needs to emerge from bankruptcy by June 30 in order to take advantage of a wildfire fund designed to help it pay for future fire - related claims .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Here’s Why Hexo Is a Cannabis Stock to Own .
2020-03-20 20:47:22 +00:00 .
HEXO ( HEXO ) could n’t have picked a worse time to announce a delayed filing of FQ2 numbers .
The stock market is in the midst of a melt down and any perceived bad news is going to crush any stock .
The good news was a revenue beat for the quarter and the delayed filing for an asset impairment charge is n’t necessarily impactful to the investment story .
Delayed Filing
On March 17 , HEXO announced a delay of the FQ2 financials due for the quarter ending January 31 .
The filing was due on March 16 .
The cannabis company blamed the delay on needing more time to finalize a large impairment charge and update disclosures to the MDAs based on romments from the Ontario Securities Commission .
The company forecasts reporting an asset impairment charge of C$ 265 million to C$ 280 million .
With the state of the Canadian cannabis sector and the asset write downs from other companies in the sector , no investor should be surprised by this move .
HEXO ended the October quarter with C$ 330 million of property , plant and equipment with another C$ 235 million in intangible assets and goodwill and inventory at C$ 85 million .
These asset levels are very high for their revenue base .
These moves are always made after a stock has been crushed and are more reflective of the current market environment and not related to future growth opportunities .
In addition , the company plans to sell their Niagara facility to completely pull the facility out of future production plans .
Closing the facility for good is n’t surprising considering the market shift to outdoor production and HEXO producing 16k kg in the last few quarters while only selling slightly above 4 K kg per quarter .
Promising Sales
The key figure in the press release was the release of gross sales at C$ 23.8 million with net sales at C$ 17.0 million .
The net revenues grew 17 % sequentially from C$ 14.5 million in the prior quarter .
The net sales number is key as HEXO has only reached a previous quarterly high of C$ 15.4 million back in FQ4 .
The amount was even slightly above analyst estimates .
In normal market times , the market would ’ve celebrated these sales numbers likely boosted from the shift to a value brand late last year before the cannabis market officially shifted .
The market will definitely want to see how expenses were constrained in the quarter along with an update to gross margins with the new value brand likely leading the way in sales growth .
The initial numbers provide some encouragement that HEXO was on pace to meet goals for substantial revenue growth throughout 2020 as new stores rollout in Canada and Cannabis 2.0 products reach the market .
The coronavirus could shut down the momentum in the current quarter .
Consensus Verdict
The consensus price target of $ 1.17 shows a double - digit upside , but based on all the ratings received over the past three months , the consensus rating on HEXO is a Moderate Sell , at least according to TipRanks .
While 2 analysts are on the Buy side , 3 say Hold and 5 advise investors to abandon ship .
( See Hexo stock analysis on TipRanks )
Takeaway
The key investor takeaway is that HEXO got beaten to a pulp due to a delayed quarterly filing , but the company beat on key revenue figures .
HEXO is clearly hitting a point where the company is finally achieving real momentum in the market .
As Canada gets beyond the coronavirus crisis that has already caused Canopy Growth to close stores , HEXO is a stock to own .
To find good ideas for cannabis stocks trading at attractive valuations , visit TipRanks ’ Best Stocks to Buy , a newly launched tool that unites all of TipRanks ’ equity insights .

Coronavirus: 'What's coming is extremely big' - UK consultant says outbreak could be worse than in Italy .
2020-03-20 19:41:51 +00:00 .
The UK 's coronavirus outbreak could be worse than Italy 's and hospitals may be " completely swamped " , an AE consultant has told Sky News .
The Italian system is " in advance of us in terms of resources and the intensive care beds " , he said , and it could be days until some hospitals reach capacity and patients begin spilling out into corridors .
The medic , who works on the front line at a south London hospital and wanted to stay anonymous , said COVID-19 had been " described as the flu " but " really is n't - not the way we are seeing it " .
He said people were coming in with " full - blown , really nasty pneumonia " .
The only way to get control of the outbreak is through a " fairly strict lockdown " , he said , warning that " somebody you know " is likely to be affected .
" We know what 's coming , and we know what 's coming is extremely big , " he said .
He and his colleagues will have to make life and death decisions , allocating resources " only to those deemed most likely to survive " .
It is something he suspects will " haunt " them afterwards .
In 30 years as a medical practitioner , the consultant said he had never seen anything like it .
He accused the government of not listening and having a " falsely placed sense of optimism that it will all work out " .
Mass coronavirus testing is needed , he said , because self - isolation guidelines are " wreaking havoc " .
" We are losing ( hospital staff ) who are otherwise well , " he said .
The consultant has seen Sky News ' report from the main hospital in Bergamo , northern Italy , where we found people in terrible distress , gasping for air .
Asked whether he is worried that his hospital could look like that , he said : " Yes , I do - I actually think it could be worse than that . "
He added : " I 'm aware of the Italian system , and I think in quite a few ways they are in advance of us in terms of resources and the intensive care beds they had available prior to this occurring .
" So I think we may actually end up in a worse state than they presently are unless we take sufficient measures right now . "
Asked if he had enough resources , he said : " In terms of what we 're anticipating , the honest truth is no .
" The NHS is n't currently set up to ventilator a huge number of people . "
: : Listen to the Daily podcast on Apple Podcasts , Google Podcasts , Spotify , Spreaker
Nor are there " sufficient numbers of staff trained in actually managing patients on ventilatory support " .
That is " not something you can just teach in an afternoon seminar " , he said .
There is not enough protective equipment ( PPE ) either .
After watching the report from Italy , he said : " I look at the pictures and I can see their staff are in full PPE material - that is not occurring right now in the UK .
" I see that they have got quite a lot of additional ventilators and other machinery which they are able to bring down into their emergency departments .
" We have got sufficient for our intensive care and recovery areas at present . "
The worst case scenario , he said , is when intensive care overflow areas become full too , and patients begin spilling out into corridors .
" That 's what you are seeing in Italy , " he said .
At that stage , only the patients thought most likely to survive will be allocated the full resources .
Others , with additional medical problems , will not receive them .
" I think you will then see a really steep rise in mortality , " he said .
He added that people " do n't stop having heart attacks , people do n't stop having strokes , but the resources will not be there for them " .
It is " actually quite horrifying to think that we could be completely swamped " , he said .

All Nine Supreme Court Justices Healthy, Spokeswoman Says .
2020-03-20 18:25:31 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- All nine U.S. Supreme Court justices are healthy and took part in a private conference Friday , a spokeswoman said , as the court signaled it was trying to move ahead with its work despite the coronavirus outbreak .
The justices did n’t engage in their traditional practice of shaking hands before the regularly scheduled meeting , and “ a number ” of them participated by phone , court spokeswoman Kathy Arberg said in an email .
The pandemic has prompted the justices to postpone the two - week argument session that was set to start next week , but the court will issue orders and opinions online Monday morning , Arberg said .
That marks a break from the traditional practice of announcing opinions from the bench .
Two of the court ’s nine members are in their 80s -- Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg , who turned 87 on Sunday , and Justice Stephen Breyer , 81 .
Four others are 65 or older : Justice Clarence Thomas , 71 ; Justice Samuel Alito , 69 ; Justice Sonia Sotomayor , 65 ; and Chief Justice John Roberts , 65 .
Elderly people are at increased risk of dying should they contract the coronavirus , and Sotomayor ’s diabetes puts her at elevated risk as well .
Following Guidance
“ Like all of us , the justices are following public health guidance , ” Arberg said .
The court had been set to hear arguments in 11 cases during the weeks of March 23 and March 30 .
Those cases include an $ 8 billion copyright clash between Alphabet Inc. ’s Google and Oracle Corp. , set for argument March 24 .
The court was also planning March 31 arguments on President Donald Trump ’s challenge to subpoenas for his financial information issued by three House committees and a New York grand jury .
Trump is trying to block his banks and accounting firm from turning over the records .
In addition to the now - postponed March sitting , the court has one more two - week argument session on its calendar , currently set to start April 20 .
That session includes a case that could affect the 2020 presidential election , a fight over “ faithless electors ” who refuse to cast their Electoral College votes for the candidate who won their state ’s balloting .
It ’s possible the court will hold back some of those cases for the nine - month term that starts in October .
But the justices could also opt to change their argument procedures , possibly holding sessions by phone or even deciding some cases without hearing arguments .
( Adds details about justices , cases starting in fourth paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

90-year-old woman recovering from coronavirus .
2020-03-20 16:56:07 +00:00 .
A 90 - year - old woman who contracted coronavirus at Life Care Center senior care facility in Seattle has recovered , her family says .
Life Care Center experienced a massive spread of the virus in mid - February .
According to a CDC investigation , 62 % of the roughly 130 elderly residents had become infected and more than a quarter of them have died .
Geneva Wood , however , is now a beacon of hope for the thousands of Americans with the virus – and the millions more fearing it .
Health officials have said elderly people and those with chronic medical problems are especially vulnerable to the disease .
Wood , who lived at Life Care Center , tested positive for coronavirus on March 6 , her grand - daughter - in - law , Kate Neidigh writes in " Seattle Refined . "
screen-shot-2020-03-20-at-10-09-26-am.png
More 90 - year - old Geneva Wood is one of the many patients at Life Care Center in Seattle , Washington .
She is now in recovery , her family excitedly announced this week .
Neidigh Family Neidigh , a fashion writer for the local publication , says this is not a " doom and gloom " story .
Wood is a " true fighter , " Neidigh writes , explaining her husband 's grandmother moved to the care center in January after suffering a stroke .
" Just when my mom beat one thing , another ' thing ' rolled her way , " Kate Neidigh 's mother - in - law , and Wood 's daughter , Cami Neidigh says .
When Wood tested positive for COVID-19 , the family was " stricken , and in shock , " and " mad , " Neidigh writes .
Wood , however had a different outlook .
" I 'm going to fight this for my family and make everyone proud , " she told Cami through a glass pane while in isolation at the hospital .
Cami Neidigh also wrote a post about her mother , tagging the 90 - year - old on Facebook in the uplifting update .
" It 's the Potato Soup ! ! !
She knew that 's what she needed to help her get better ! "
Neidigh joked .
" It 's working and the doctor and nurses are wanting the recipe ! "
Geneva Wood update ...
It ’s the Potato Soup ! ! !
She knew that ’s what she needed to help her get better !
It ’s working and ...
Posted by Cami Neidigh on Monday , March 16 , 2020
Neidigh wrote the doctors were able to slowly take her mom off oxygen , and although she still had a stuffy nose on Monday , they expected her to be symptom free very shortly . "
She will still need to stay in isolation until she goes through their protocol for being listed as clear and recovered , " Neidigh wrote .
" If she continues on her current path , she could possibly be discharged to go home in approximately a week . "
Neidigh was excited to share the good news about her mom , writing " I think I just exhaled . "
" Never underestimate the power of thoughts and prayers !
Keep it up , it 's working ! "
the daughter wrote .
Wood has five kids , 11 grandchildren , 12 great - grandchildren and 3 great - great - grandchildren , according to Kate Neidigh 's article for Seattle Refined .
" The love of her family had been a driving force in everything she did pre - coronavirus .
No way was this going to change after - the - fact , " she wrote .
In a message to CBS News , Kate Neidigh said Wood is still getting better each day .
" They still need to do some tests .
But doctors are already talking to the family about a discharge plan , " she said .
screen-shot-2020-03-20-at-10-12-30-am.png
More
Wood is a " true fighter , " her granddaughter - in - law writes .
Neidigh Family Olympic torch arrives in Japan as future of summer games remains in doubt
Bishop T.D. Jakes sends message of hope amid pandemic Questions surround California death row inmate 's guilt

WHO walks back advice on ibuprofen, having told people with coronavirus symptoms to avoid it and take paracetamol instead .
2020-03-20 16:05:52 +00:00 .
Patrick Sison / AP
The World Health Organization tweeted on Wednesday that it does not recommend against the use of ibuprofen in treating coronavirus fevers , in an apparent change of course .
A spokesperson had previously advised that people self - medicating for coronavirus symptoms should instead take paracetamol , which is known as acetaminophen or the brand name Tylenol in the US . Questions over the use of anti - inflammatories such as ibuprofen and cortisone made headlines after the French health minister said in a tweet they could aggravate coronavirus symptoms .
However , experts disagree about whether this advice was sensible , and people should talk to their doctor before making a decision , as Business Insider reported . Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Video : How to Stay Safe at Work During the Coronavirus Pandemic
The World Health Organization has issued new advice on the use of anti - inflammatories such as ibuprofen in managing coronavirus symptoms , contradicting an earlier statement which told infected people to use paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the US ) instead .
WHO tweeted on Wednesday : " Based on currently available information , WHO does not recommend against the use of of ibuprofen . "
It added : " WHO is aware of concerns on the use of # ibuprofen for the treatment of fever for people with # COVID19 .
We are consulting with physicians treating the patients are not aware of reports of any negative effects , beyond the usual ones that limit its use in certain populations . "
This is a change from earlier advice .
A spokesperson for the organization , Christian Lindmeier , was asking in a press conference on Tuesday to address comments from France 's health minister that ibuprofen could aggravate a coronavirus infection .
In response , Lindmeier said the WHO was looking further into the matter , and added : " In the meantime , we recommend using rather paracetamol , and do not use ibuprofen as a self - medication .
That 's important , " according to Agence France - Presse .
He added that if ibuprofen had been " prescribed by the healthcare professionals , then , of course , that 's up to them . "
The confusion over ibuprofen came after French Health and Solidarity Minister Olivier Véran , pictured on March 13 , tweeted that it could " aggravate " a coronavirus infection .
More
Ludovic Marin / Pool / Reuters
The disquiet over whether anti - inflammatories can worsen symptoms of the coronavirus was sparked on March 14 , after the French Health and Solidarity Minister Olivier Véran tweeted that anti - inflammatories such as ibuprofen and cortisone could be an " aggravating factor . "
He advised those with a fever to use paracetamol , and told people already on anti - inflammatories , or those who are unsure , to seek a doctor 's advice .
Expert reaction to Véran 's tweet was mixed .
Some medics said there is currently no strong evidence on how ibuprofen affects COVID-19 , and others supporting the minister 's logic , Business Insider 's Anna Medaris Miller previously reported .
In addition , while Véran tweeted about both steroidal ( cortisone ) and non - steroidal ( ibuprofen ) anti - inflammatories , these are used differently , and cortisone is not commonly used to treat fevers , according to Dr Tom Wingfield , Senior Clinical Lecturer and Honorary Consultant Physician at the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine .
Primary care doctor Ernest Brown told Business Insider that people using steroidal anti - inflammatories should talk to their doctor before stopping .
Business Insider

Tax Day postponed until July 15, Treasury Secretary says .
2020-03-20 15:58:10 +00:00 .
Tax Day is being pushed back until July while the nation copes with the effects of the coronavirus , Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin announced Friday .
" At @realDonaldTrump ’s direction , we are moving Tax Day from April 15 to July 15 .
All taxpayers and businesses will have this additional time to file and make payments without interest or penalties , " Mnuchin said in a pair of tweets .
" I encourage all taxpayers who may have tax refunds to file now to get your money . "
The announcement follows one earlier this week that individuals and businesses would be allowed to delay paying their 2019 tax bills for 90 days past the usual April 15 deadline .
Mnuchin said then that individuals would be able to delay paying up to $ 1 million in tax payments , while corporations would be able to defer payment on up to $ 10 million .
Individuals and corporations would not be subject to interest or penalty payments during that period of time , Mnuchin said .
The delay is part of an effort to keep $ 300 billion in the economy while people and companies deal with the unprecedented financial impact caused by the coronavirus .
In its Wednesday announcement on the initial 90 - day delay , the Internal Revenue Service cautioned that the delay applied only to federal income taxes , not state income taxes .
" Taxpayers also will need to file income tax returns in 42 states plus the District of Columbia , " the agency said on its website .
"
State filing and payment deadlines vary and are not always the same as the federal filing deadline .
The IRS urges taxpayers to check with their state tax agencies for those details . "
The Treasury Department was expected to comment later Friday .

IRS extends tax deadline to July 15 from April 15 .
2020-03-20 15:57:12 +00:00 .
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin announced that tax day will be delayed from April 15 to July 15 .
He made the announcement on Twitter on Friday , days after announcing a deferral on tax payments but not on filing day .
“ All taxpayers and businesses will have this additional time to file and make payments without interest or penalties , ” Mnuchin tweeted .
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had also announced that , as part of the House GOP plan for a next round of economic stimulus , he wanted to delay the tax deadline .
McConnell ’s bill also included provisions to allow individuals making payments to postpone them even further , until Oct. 15 .
On March 10 , Democratic lawmakers on the Ways and Means Committee sent a letter to the IRS to find out more about any changes for the filing season .
“ We request your continued evaluation of whether there is any need to extend the tax filing season beyond the April 15 deadline , ” they wrote at the time .
As recently as Tuesday , the White House had detailed how taxpayers would be able to defer tax payments but said that tax day itself would stay the same .
“ All you have to do is file your taxes ; you ’ll automatically not get charged interest in penalties , ” Mnuchin said during that coronavirus briefing .
Taxpayers may be able to get a further extension with a form 4868 , which in normal years gives taxpayers until Oct. 15 to file a return .
It was not immediately clear how the delay in tax day would change the extension process .
Tax refunds
What remains unchanged after Friday ’s announcement is that taxpayers who expect a refund can file right now and get their payments once the return is processed .
In a follow - up tweet , the Treasury Secretary encouraged taxpayers to do just that .
IRS data through March 6 shows that almost 68 million Americans — roughly half of all filers based on previous years – have taken that advice .
Nearly 53 million Americans ( at least ) have already gotten their refunds .
Ben Werschkul is a producer for Yahoo Finance in Washington , DC .
Read more :
Washington is debating extending the tax season .
One expert ’s response : ‘ File right now ’ ' Americans need cash now ' : Washington debates how to spend $ 850B on coronavirus stimulus
Breaking down the $ 8.3 billion emergency spending bill Trump signed
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , LinkedIn , YouTube , and reddit .

Despite tax day extension, coronavirus restrictions still hobble tax payers and preparers .
2020-03-20 15:37:45 +00:00 .
Tax payers and tax preparers now have an extra 90 days to finish up their tax filing , after Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin announced via tweet that tax day would be moved from April 15 to July 15 .
" It is such a big relief and I know that taxpayers and preparers will benefit , " Brian Streig , a CPA in Austin , Texas , told NBC News .
Preparers and accountants were scrambling to file all their clients ’ tax returns ahead of the April 15 deadline while also trying to practice “ social distancing ” and follow President Donald Trump ’s recommendation to work from home , amid the coronavirus outbreak .
One tax preparer in Massachusetts , who wished to remain anonymous , told NBC News , her work required her to come into contact with " dozens , if not close to 100 people daily . ”
" Most clients are still coming in for their appointment because the majority still believe this is being blown out of proportion , ” she added .
The National Society of Accountants sent a letter to the president of the Internal Revenue Service explaining that many firms were worried they would not be able to file everything before April 15 .
“ These clients are reporting day - to - day business disruptions including travel restrictions , supply chain interruptions , and diminished customer traffic resulting in reduced revenue and limited access to tax documentation .
Our members are indicating that these developments present significant challenges for clients in organizing tax records and making final and/or estimated tax payments , ” the letter said .
On Wednesday , the IRS announced it would extend the payment deadline to July 15 , giving individuals 90 extra days to pay what they owe the government .
However , this extension did not apply to the actual filing date of April 15 — less than one month away .
Streig said extending the filing date gives his clients more clarity .
" Trying to explain the difference in the filing deadline versus the payment deadline was a distinction most did n't understand right away , " he said .
With many CPAs and tax preparers being urged , or in some states , required , to work from home , they were unable to complete the necessary paperwork in order to file all the returns on time .
Streig said his firm sent everyone home , and with kids home from school and the current situation it ’s impossible to “ expect the same productivity going on right now , it ’s just not going to happen . ”
In order for tax preparers to be able to file their clients ’ returns , they need specific documents that are typically dropped off at the office .
The coronavirus pandemic has made it more difficult for preparers to obtain these documents , since people must stay at home .
Some firms have systems in place that allow their clients to submit the documents electronically , but for some older individuals this is n’t always an option .
“ Many of these people do n’t have access to scanners .
Under better circumstances they could see their kids and they could help them but they ’re not supposed to do that right now , ” Streig told NBC News .

Bed Bath & Beyond Shutters Stores to Prevent COVID-19 Spread .
2020-03-20 15:04:52 +00:00 .
Bed Bath Beyond Inc.
BBBY is the latest retailer to join the fight against COVID-19 by shutting down more than 50 % of its stores in the United States and Canada , beginning today till Apr 3 .
However , stores selling healthcare , personal care , infant care , cleaning supplies or food and beverages will remain open , according to the state and local regulations .
Per media reports , this move came after its employees raised objection to keeping stores open .
In this context , sources claim that store closures will not affect employees as they will continue to receive salaries for the aforementioned period .
Speaking of store closures , other major retailers , including Macy ’s M , Nordstorm JWN and Kohl ’s Corp. KSS , have also responded to this crisis by closing all stores .
In this regard , Macy ’s closed all stores nationwide , from Mar 17 till 31 .
Further , Nordstorm shuttered all stores across the United States and Canada for the same timeframe .
Also , Kohl ’s shut down all stores worldwide , starting Mar 19 to Apr 1 .
That said , all these companies have noted that online stores will continue to operate .
Coming back to Bed Bath
Beyond , it will close roughly 800 store locations , which do n’t sell health and personal care products .
Meanwhile , 700 stores with essential items , such as buybuy BABY , Harmon and other concepts , will continue to operate in order to meet customers ’ daily needs .
This is seen as yet another blow to the company as it has been witnessing a dismal sales trend reflecting a drab holiday season .
This dismal sales trend can be attributable to soft comparable sales ( comps ) due to a decline in the number of store transactions .
Comparable sales decline in the first two months of fourth - quarter fiscal 2019 reflected a low double - digit percentage decrease in store transactions , partly countered by a mid - single - digit percentage rise in the average transaction amount .
Due to such downsides , shares of this Zacks Rank # 4 ( Sell ) company have plummeted 67.5 % in the past three months compared with the industry ’s decline of 45.4 % .
You can see the complete list of today ’s Zacks # 1 Rank ( Strong Buy ) stocks here .
Moving on , management ’s store closure announcement follows U.S. President Trump ’s declaration of a health emergency on Mar 13 , in the wake of the rapid spread of this deadly virus .
Later , the Federal Reserve announced an interest rate cut to 0 - 0.25 % in order to support the economy that has been badly hit by this outbreak .
This will boost margins and lower inflation .
Also , it revealed plans to buy $ 500 billion of Treasury securities and $ 200 billion of agency - backed mortgage securities to lower the impact of COVID-19 on the economy .
Today 's Best Stocks from Zacks
Would you like to see the updated picks from our best market - beating strategies ?
From 2017 through 2019 , while the SP 500 gained and impressive +53.6 % , five of our strategies returned +65.8 % , +97.1 % , +118.0 % , +175.7 % and even +186.7 % .
This outperformance has not just been a recent phenomenon .
From 2000 – 2019 , while the SP averaged +6.0 % per year , our top strategies averaged up to +54.7 % per year .
See their latest picks free Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research ?
Today , you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days .
Click to get this free report Bed Bath Beyond Inc. ( BBBY ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report Nordstrom , Inc. ( JWN ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report Macy 's , Inc. ( M ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report Kohl 's Corporation ( KSS ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here .
Zacks Investment Research

Here's today's round of auto plant closures in response to coronavirus .
2020-03-20 14:16:47 +00:00 .
More automakers have shuttered factories , as businesses everywhere work to slow the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus — and as the pandemic slows sales and disrupts parts supply chains .
On Friday , the following closures were announced : •
Volvo will close its factories in Sweden and the United States from March 26 to April 14 .
Volvo 's U.S. facility , in Charleston , South Carolina , makes the S60 sedan .
Its assembly plant in Torslanda , Sweden , turns out the XC90 , SC60 , and V90 .
Other Swedish facilities make engines and component parts .
A Volvo factory in Ghent , Belgium , that builds the XC40 and V60 closed earlier this week and is expected to remain offline until April 6 .
Volvo 's four factories in China have been reopened after a shutdown earlier this year .
• Jaguar Land Rover announced that it will suspend production at its assembly plants in the UK over the coming week .
The shutdown is expected to last until April 20 .
Elsewhere , production continues at the company 's factories in India and Brazil , and JLR 's joint - venture plant in China reopened at the end of February .
•
Bentley is closing its factory in Crewe , England , for four weeks , effective today .
• Bugatti has put its atelier in Molsheim , France , on hiatus .
No date was given for when assembly of its supercars might resume .
Tesla yesterday revealed that it will suspend operations at its Fremont , California , vehicle assembly plant next week , on order from local officials there .
Yesterday 's factory closure announcements also included the U.S. assembly plants for Toyota ( until April 6 ) , Volkswagen ( through March 29 ) , Subaru
( through March 29 ) , and Hyundai ( no time period specified ) .
They join GM , Ford , Chrysler , Honda , Nissan , and Harley - Davidson , which earlier this week announced the suspension of production at their facilities .

Coronavirus: US senators dumped millions in stocks as outbreak loomed .
2020-03-20 09:51:05 +00:00 .
Several US senators are under fire for dumping millions of dollars in stock holdings just before coronavirus tanked the markets – and after they were briefed on the likely impact of the epidemic .
North Carolina ’s Richard Burr , head of the Senate ’s Intelligence Committee , and Georgia ’s Kelly Loeffler , both Republicans , sold off shares after a closed - door briefing on the epidemic on January 24 , well before it became publicly clear how badly coronavirus set to affect the US .
As reported by Open Secrets , Mr Burr unloaded thousands of dollars of stocks along with his wife in mid - February , many of them in companies likely to lose value , including hotel chains .
Mr Burr , who has represented North Carolina in the Senate since 2005 , has long been a leader on legislation designed to help the government prepare for pandemics , specifically the Pandemic and All - Hazards Preparedness Act , first enacted in 2006 and then re - authorised in 2019 .
This legislative experience makes him one of the Senate ’s go - to authorities on the implications of a fast - spreading and lethal pathogen .
“ “ Senator Loeffler , meanwhile , sold off multiple shares in various companies while buying shares in another that produces teleworking software .
According to records filed with Senate ethics officials , the sold - off stocks came to a value of between $ 1.275 m and $ 3.1 m.
In a statement , senator Loeffler denied she had a personal role in the transactions or that they were made based on information she received at the closed - door hearings .
“ This is a ridiculous and baseless attack .
I do not make investment decisions for my portfolio .
Investment decisions are made by multiple third - party advisors without my or my husband ’s knowledge or involvement .
“ As confirmed in the periodic transaction report to Senate Ethics , I was informed of these purchases and sales on February 16 , 2020 – three weeks after they were made . ”
Ms Loeffler is both the youngest member of the Senate and one of its wealthiest , as well as its most recent arrival , having been nominated by her state ’s governor at the end of 2019 to fill the seat vacated by Johnny Isakson .
Other Republican senators found for the timing of their stock transactions include Oklahoma ’s Jim Inhofe and Wisconsin ’s Ron Johnson , both of whom have reported large transactions in their favour in the weeks after the briefing .
On the Democratic side , California ’s Dianne Feinstein sold millions of dollars of shares in two transactions after the briefing .
Ms Feinstein ’s spokesperson told the New York Times that she and her husband kept their stock in a blind trust , meaning they had no role in their multi - million dollar sales .
Read more
The dirty truth about washing your hands
What is the difference between Covid-19 and the common cold and flu ?
Can face masks really protect you against coronavirus or flu ?
The UK government ’s four stages of fighting coronavirus explained
What are symptoms of coronavirus -- and where has it spread ?
publicly reassured Americans NPR called insider trading legislation inform their stock trading told OpenSecrets
Tucker Carlson

Two mask production lines approved by Hong Kong government, with five others being considered as city races to stem coronavirus tide .
2020-03-20 07:31:36 +00:00 .
The Hong Kong government has approved two local production lines for masks amid the coronavirus epidemic , and is considering another five applications under a HK$1.5 billion subsidy to deal with a supply shortage .
The first two successful applicants were Topwill Passion Limited and Shang Manufactory Limited , which might receive funding of up to HK$2.5 million and HK$2 million respectively according to their committed output , the Commerce and Economic Development Bureau said on Friday .
Bureau chief and commerce minister Edward Yau Tang - wah said he was also in discussions with applicants over the production of masks for children .
Edward Yau , secretary for commerce and economic development , says he is discussing with applicants how more masks can be produced for children .
Photo : K.Y. Cheng
More
“ The scheme could ease the shortage of masks in Hong Kong .
Apart from the standard masks for adults , some applicants have indicated their interests in producing masks for different parties such as children .
“ I will be in talks with them to see if they can do this , ” Yau said .
Under the HK$1.5 billion subsidy scheme , manufacturers setting up a production line capable of delivering at least 500,000 masks a month would be given up to HK$3 million .
Each subsequent production line in the same plant would then be subsidised by up to HK$2 million .
The scheme is rolled out under a HK$30 billion government package to lift the city out of the shadows of the coronavirus epidemic .
Among the successful applicants , Topwill Passion is expected to supply an average of 2 million masks to the government every month starting from April 20 , and produce a further 250,000 masks for the local market on average monthly .
Shang Manufactory is expected to supply an average of 800,000 masks to the government every month starting from May 5 .
The bureau said as of Thursday , the scheme had attracted a total of 82 applications , and apart from the two approved applicants , five others had been confirmed to have met all criteria of the scheme .
Another 70 applications did not make the mark , and an extra five were still under a verification process , it added .
The bureau said the actual amount of each subsidy depended on the manufacturer ’s eventual expenditure on production equipment and the setting up of a venue and cleanroom facilities , as well as testing and standards compliance .
Apart from having a site and the relevant facilities ready , manufacturers are also required to secure production equipment and raw materials .
The application period ends on December 31 or when all 20 slots for subsidies are allocated .
According to the company registry , Shang Manufactory ’s director is Dr Cheung Kwong - ming , the chairman of toy manufacturer Tsuen Lee Group with its production base on the mainland .
The group ’s subsidiary Shang Healthcare Ltd is a Hong Kong - based company focusing on health care products including masks .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
This article Two mask production lines approved by Hong Kong government , with five others being considered as city races to stem coronavirus tide first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Conte Says Italy to Extend Virus Lockdown, Protect Business .
2020-03-20 05:08:23 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said he will extend a nationwide lockdown that is weighing on the economy , as coronavirus cases continue to climb in Europe ’s worst outbreak with the number of deaths reaching almost 3,000 .
The government will maintain its closure of virtually all retailers except for grocery stores , pharmacies and gas stations beyond the original March 25 deadline , the premier said in an interview with Corriere della Sera .
Schools , which had been scheduled to reopen April 3 , will stay closed longer than originally planned .
“ We managed to avoid the collapse of the system and the measures are working , ” so they will be extended , Conte said .
The government is working on a new decree to allow for billions of euros of public investments .
Italy has the world ’s second - highest number of diagnosed cases , with more than 35,000 known infections .
The government has approved a 25 billion - euro package ( $ 27 billion ) to support its strained health system while helping businesses and families counter the economic impact of the lockdown .
The government is now considering tightening the existing restrictions amid concern that many Italians are not respecting rules that confine them to their homes except for reasons related to work , health or emergencies .
“ I want to appeal to the sense of responsibility of all citizens , ” Interior Minister Luciana Lamorgese told daily la Repubblica .
“ Stay at home , go out only if there is a strict necessity to do so . ”
Italian police performed checks on more than 1 million people between March 11 and March 17 , Lamorgese said , citing almost 50,000 for failing to respect the rules .
Possible new regulations that could be enacted by March 25 include banning all outdoor sports activities , limiting citizens ’ rights to go out for walks and closing grocery stores for all or part of the day on Sundays , Repubblica said .
Italy ’s electricity consumption dropped in the past week , a first sign of the deep economic impact of the lockdown .
While daily calculations show a 5 % drop in electricity on the Terna SpA network in the week through March 15 , the grid operator estimates final figures will show the slump is actually about 10 % .
Conte may also extend so - called Golden Power protections , which enable the government to block foreign takeovers of Italian companies , to include all companies listed on one of Milan ’s exchanges .
( Updates with possible new limits , interior minister from fifth paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

GOP Sen. Richard Burr's response to coronavirus insider-trading reports ranges from weak denial to 'lol' .
2020-03-20 05:05:11 +00:00 .
Sen. Richard Burr ( R - N.C. ) , chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee , responded Thursday night to two damaging reports showing his bifurcated public - private responses to the COVID-19 coronavirus outbreak .
First , NPR News reported that Burr had issued a dire warning about the coronavirus at a Jan. 27 private luncheon in North Carolina at the same time he was publicly more upbeat about America 's preparedness for a pandemic .
Then , ProPublica examined Burr 's new financial disclosure forms and found that he sold between $ 628,000 and $ 1.72 million of his stock holdings in 33 separate transactions on Feb. 13 , his largest stock selling day in at least 14 months .
The stock market has since plummeted about 30 percent .
Burr called NPR 's article , which included a recording of his comments , a " tabloid - style hit piece " that left the wrong impression Americans were n't properly warned about the coronavirus , citing tepid comments from President Trump and other officials .
Burr spokeswoman Caitlin Carroll responded to the reports of possible insider trading by noting that " Burr filed a financial disclosure form for personal transactions made several weeks before the U.S. and financial markets showed signs of volatility due to the growing coronavirus outbreak .
"
When NPR asked about Burr 's stock sales , Carroll replied : " lol . "
Burr was one of only three senators who voted against the 2012 STOCK Act , which requires senators and their staff to regularly disclose their stock trades and explicitly bars them from using nonpublic information for buying and selling shares .
In 2009 , after hearing a report about banking troubles from Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson , Burr publicly recalled telling his wife " to go to the ATM machine , and I want you to draw out everything it will let you take . "
Fox News host Tucker Carlson and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio - Cortez ( D - N.Y. ) were among those who called on Burr to explain or resign .
Trump , who is n't friendly with Burr , watches Carlson 's show regularly and is known to value his opinion .
At the same time , Burr is n't the only GOP senator who made questionable stock sales while downplaying the virus , and this scandal may yet end up hitting closer to home .
More stories from theweek.com
Lindsey Graham is reportedly trying to talk Trump out of coronavirus relief checks for Americans California governor announces statewide stay - at - home order 7 funny cartoons about coronavirus hoarding

Sen. Kelly Loeffler, who once ran crypto-currency firm, sold off stock ahead of coronavirus market crash .
2020-03-20 05:05:11 +00:00 .
Associated Press
Sen. Kelly Loeffler , a Republican from Georgia , sold off stock following a Capitol Hill briefing on the threat of COVID-19 .
She then invested in a company that sells telecommuting software , The Daily Beast reports .
Loeffler 's husband is chairman of The New York Stock Exchange , and she previously ran a crypto - currency firm .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
The wealthiest member of the US Senate sold off over a million dollars worth of shares ahead of the stock market drop , after being briefed on the likely impact of the COVID-19 outbreak , The Daily Beast revealed on Thursday .
Sen. Kelly Loeffler , a Republican from Georgia appointed to her office by the state 's governor , then turned around and invested in a company well - positioned to capitalize on the impending crisis : a technology firm that sells telecommuting software .
Loeffler 's office did not immediately respond to Business Insider 's request for comment .
In a statement on Twitter , however , the senator called the report a " ridiculous and baseless attack , " claiming the transactions were made without her knowledge .
Prior to public life , Loeffler served as chief executive of Bakkt , a crypto - currency services firm owned by InterContinental Exchange ( ICE ) , the operator of The New York Stock Exchange .
Her husband , Jeffrey Sprecher , is the founder of ICE and chairman of the stock exchange .
Together , the couple owns more than $ 500 million in ICE stock alone , according to Fortune magazine .
Loeffler , who took office in January , attended a January 24 , Senate Health Committee briefing " regarding the novel coronavirus outbreak . "
The Daily Beast reports that he began selling off stock later that day .
Citing filings with Senate ethics officials , The Daily Beast report states that Loeffler sold between $ 50,001 and $ 100,000 worth of stock in Resideo Technologies .
Shares in the company closed at $ 11.38 that day ; as of March 19 , those shares are now worth $ 5.11 .
Between then and mid - February , Loeffler and her husband made 29 stock transactions , including purchases worth between $ 100,000 and $ 250,000 in Citrix , " a technology company that offers teleworking software . "
Loeffler is the second Republican senator found to have sold a massive share of stocks weeks ahead of the market crash .
Earlier on Thursday , ProPublica revealed that Sen. Richard Burr , chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee , dumped between $ 628,000 and $ 1.7 million in shares on February 13 .
All the while , The Daily Beast notes , Loeffler was presenting an upbeat message regarding the looming pandemic .
" Democrats have dangerously and intentionally misled the American people on # coronavirus readiness , " she tweeted on February 28 .
Read the original article on Business Insider

A group of friends spent 25 days rafting in the Grand Canyon with no outside contact — and returned to find the world in the midst of a 'disorienting' pandemic .
2020-03-20 04:01:23 +00:00 .
Mason Thomas Video : Three Coronavirus Patients Share Their Stories
A group of rafters who spent the last 25 days camping on the Grand Canyon 's Colorado River emerged to a confusing world completely enveloped by the coronavirus when they finished their trip on Sunday .
The group of more than a dozen rafters , who initially told their story to the New York Times , set out on the trip on February 19 .
Their phones were off as the novel coronavirus spread across the United States , causing a new normal in which people hoarded toilet paper and were told to stay indoors indefinitely .
Since the virus first started spreading , COVID-19 has infected more than 235,00 people worldwide , and at least 9,700 people have died .
In the US , 165 people have died from the disease .
Mason Thomas , a 29 - year - old from Rancho Cordova , California , who was on the trip , told Insider that he was paying attention to the virus before he left because his mother and brother both have health problems .
The novel coronavirus became a pandemic while the group was on the river Mason Thomas , whose river name was One Chain , is pictured left , and a friend on the rafting trip .
More Mason Thomas
When the crew left , on February 19 , Wuhan , China , had been put under quarantine , and the Center for Disease Control and Prevention had issued a " Level 1 " travel advisory to parts of Asia , meaning travelers should " practice usual precaution . "
But when Thomas and his friends finished the trip , they were met by a rafting company employee in Flagstaff , Arizona , who gave them an update on the world : the novel coronavirus was now a pandemic , Italy was on lockdown , supermarket shelves were empty , sports leagues had been suspended , the stock market had plummeted , and people were advised to stay indoors .
The adventure group turned on their phones , and there was immediate confusion .
" Why would a respiratory virus cause people to buy all the toilet paper ?
How did this get out of control like this ? "
Thomas recalled thinking .
" It 's disorienting .
So much to process . "
Isolation on the Colorado River prepared the rafters for social distancing .
The rafters on the Colorado River .
More Mason Thomas Thomas said that being on the Colorado River away from most of society , " prepared us to continue in that fashion , " when arriving back home and practicing social distancing to prevent the spread of COVID-19 .
" But it has been very difficult not being able to see the people I 've missed , and if I do , not being able to hug them or anything , " he said .
Zach Edler , one of Thomas ' fellow rafters , told The New York Times , that he had no regrets about taking the trip .
" Some people would n't like this
but I loved that blissful ignorance .
It allows you to enjoy the beauty of life . "
For him , the last week was the rarest form of adventure — precious stolen days to postpone a dire reality , " Edler told The Times .
" We had so much fun .
We lived in the moment .
We were some of the only people in the world who had no idea .
I liked it better then . "
Thomas said since getting back , he 's been trying to reconnect with friends as best he can , listen to podcasts , and read the news .
Insider

Zero home-grown coronavirus cases reported in China for second day running .
2020-03-20 02:09:18 +00:00 .
Mainland China has recorded no new coronavirus domestic infections for the second day in a row , and the lowest number of new deaths from Covid-19 , the disease caused by the virus , in two months .
The National Health Commission said all 39 new infections , as of Thursday , had been imported from abroad .
Three new fatalities were reported – the lowest since January 21 , two days before China announced unprecedented measures to lock down Wuhan , where the outbreak was first reported .
Mainland China has reported 80,967 infections and 3,248 deaths in total .
There are 31 new suspected cases nationwide , none of which are in Hubei province , of which Wuhan is the capital .
The Chinese Fencing Association said three members of the China épée team , who returned home on Monday after an event in Hungary , had tested positive for coronavirus .
Elsewhere , the pandemic is escalating .
Italy announced 427 new deaths on Thursday , pushing its total to 3,405 , and exceeding the total fatalities recorded across mainland China , Hong Kong , Macau and Taiwan .
Italy also has the world ’s second - highest number of diagnosed cases , 41,035 , after China .
At least five doctors in Italy are among the dead .
The number of confirmed cases in the US stood at 10,442 infected and 150 deaths as of Thursday .
More than 9,600 people have died around the world .
More to follow
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Zero home - grown coronavirus cases reported in China for second day running first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

High-Grade Bond-Fund Outflows Hit $35.6 Billion, Smashing Record .
2020-03-19 21:51:50 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Investors withdrew an unprecedented $ 35.6 billion from U.S. funds that buy up investment - grade debt this week as the global market rout from the spreading coronavirus intensified .
At the same time , a record $ 249 billion poured into U.S. government money - market funds .
The withdrawals from corporate high - grade debt blow through the previous record $ 7.3 billion outflow from last week , according to Refinitiv Lipper .
Funds that buy junk bonds lost $ 2.9 billion in the five business days ended March 18 , while leveraged loan investors withdrew about $ 3.5 billion .
Credit markets had another volatile week amid a worldwide meltdown in risk assets .
Risk premiums on investment - grade bonds reached levels not seen since the financial crisis , while junk bond yields breached 10 % for the first time in more than eight years .
”
The number is off the charts , but so is the magnitude of this market correction , ” Dorian Garay , a portfolio manager at NN Investment Partners , said in reference to the investment - grade bond outflows .
Despite the turmoil , investment - grade companies including Walt Disney Co. and PepsiCo Inc. seized moments of relative calm to issue new debt .
Many firms selling bonds this week were doing so to reduce their reliance on the commercial paper market , where prices have risen rapidly amid a broad market seize - up .
Lipper fund flow data covers investment - grade funds that manage about $ 1.3 trillion in assets .
“ The flows into IG have been so steady over the past eight years , that it was like the farmer coming with a daily handful of grain to feed the turkey in the back yard , ” said Gregory Staples , head of fixed income at DWS Investment Management .
“ Today what the farmer had in his hand was an axe . ”
Investment - grade bonds are poised for another one of the largest weekly losses on record as spreads widen to crisis levels .
The three most recent daily outflows from high - grade funds and exchange - traded funds are the largest on record , Bank of America Corp. strategists led by Hans Mikkelsen said in a report Wednesday .
The Federal Reserve stepped in on Tuesday , announcing that it would reintroduce the Commercial Paper Funding Facility , a measure it used during the financial crisis to shore up short - term funding markets .
Total assets in government money - market funds rose to an all - time high of $ 3.09 trillion in the week ended March 18 , according to Investment Company Institute data that stretches back to 2007 .
The prior weekly inflows record of $ 176 billion was set in September 2008 during the financial crisis caused by the collapse of Lehman Brothers .
Prime money - market funds , which tend to invest in higher - risk assets such as commercial paper , saw outflows of $ 85.4 billion , the largest move since October 2016 , according to ICI .
Total assets fell to $ 713 billion .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Pictures show epic queues outside supermarkets as Brits continue to stockpile during coronavirus crisis .
2020-03-19 21:33:46 +00:00 .
Despite supermarkets introducing strict measures to control panic buying amid the coronavirus crisis , shops were still faced with huge queues this morning .
Customers were pictured with trolleys standing outside Britain ’s major supermarket chains on Thursday as they waited for doors to open .
Dedicated hours were introduced in some shops this week so that those in need of essential items would be able to buy them before shelves cleared .
People queue to shop at Sainsbury 's supermarket where the store had announced that the first hour of opening would be for elderly and vulnerable customers .
( PA )
More Empty shelves inside a Sainsburys supermarket in Watford as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , Watford , Britain , March 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Paul Childs
More
People queue outside of a Costco store in Watford , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , Britain , March 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Paul Childs
More
People queue outside of a Costco store in Watford , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , Britain , March 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Paul Childs
More
Limitations on the number of items people can buy to ease stockpiling pressures amid the Covid-19 outbreak have also introduced .
Last week , Boris Johnson urged Brits to “ behave sensibly ” and not panic buy or hoard items like toilet rolls and soap so that everyone is able to purchase them .
People queue outside of a Costco store in Watford , as the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues , Britain , March 19 , 2020 .
REUTERS / Paul Childs
More
The empty fruit and vegetable section at an Asda store in Watford .
( Reuters )
More Story continues
The government said they would do all they could to ensure shelves would be stocked , including authorising a temporary relaxation , until April 16 , of the drivers ' hours rules to help deliver goods to stores across the country .
Shoppers queued outside Sainsbury ’s in Leamington Spa on Thursday morning .
The store announced that the first our of opening would be for elderly and vulnerable people .
Shoppers queue round the block to get into a Watford branch of Costco .
( Reuters )
More Sainsbury ’s shoppers gathered outside stores across the country on Thursday morning , despite the company saying they would only open to the elderly and vulnerable for the first hour of trading on Thursday .
Chief executive Mike Coupe add that stores will open for an hour longer so other shoppers do not miss out –
but it did not stop the queues .
Outside a Watford branch of Costco , shoppers lined up on the road with trolleys to stock up on supplies before the shelves were stripped bare .
Waitrose customers were at the store first thing in the morning to stock up .
( Reuters )
More Sainsbury 's in St Albans saw queues stretch outside the store .
( Reuters )
More
Customers lined up through a Waitrose car park as they waited for the doors to open – eager to buy groceries before the store ran out of essentials .
Queues stretched the length of the car park at a St Albans branch of Sainsbury ’s as customers waited for the hour dedicated to the elderly and vulnerable to end .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of Covid-19 cases in your local area
Explained : Symptoms , latest advice and how it compares to the flu

Tesla to temporarily shut down Fremont factory .
2020-03-19 21:10:22 +00:00 .
Tesla will suspend production at its Fremont , Calif. , factory beginning March 23 , days after a shelter in - place order went into effect in Alameda County due to the COVID-19 pandemic and sparked a public tussle between the automaker and local officials over what was consider an " essential " business .
Tesla will also suspend operations at its factory in Buffalo , New York except for " those parts and supplies necessary for service , infrastructure and critical supply chains , " the company said in a statement .
Meanwhile , the company 's massive factory near Reno , Nevada is operational as usual .
The Nevada gigafactory , as Tesla describes it , employs thousands of people who produce electric motors for the Model 3 and battery packs for its portfolio of electric vehicles .
Tesla believes it has enough liquidity to weather the shutdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic .
Its cash position at the end of the the fourth quarter was $ 6.3 billion before its recent $ 2.3 billion capital raise .
" We believe this level of liquidity is sufficient to successfully navigate an extended period of uncertainty , " Tesla said .
The company had available credit lines worth about $ 3 billion , including working capital lines for all regions as well as financing for the expansion of its Shanghai factory at the end of the fourth quarter of 2019 .
Here 's a portion of the statement :
In the past few days , we have met with local , state and federal officials .
We have followed and are continuing to follow all legal directions and safety guidelines with respect to the operations of our facilities , and have honored the Federal Government ’s direction to continue operating .
Despite taking all known health precautions , continued operations in certain locations has caused challenges for our employees , their families and our suppliers .
As such , we have decided to temporarily suspend production at our factory in Fremont , from end of day March 23 , which will allow an orderly shutdown .
Basic operations will continue in order to support our vehicle and energy service operations and charging infrastructure , as directed by the local , state and federal authorities .
Our factory in New York will temporarily suspend production as well , except for those parts and supplies necessary for service , infrastructure and critical supply chains .
Operations of our others facilities will continue , including Nevada and our service and Supercharging network .
Tesla also said that it will start “ touchless deliveries ” in many locations to allow customers to take delivery of their vehicle " in a seamless and safe way . "
The vehicles will be placed in a delivery parking lot .
Customers will be able to unlock the vehicles using the Tesla app and then sign the remaining paperwork necessary to take ownership .
Customers will need to return that paperwork to an on - site drop - off location prior to leaving .

Lawmakers want delay in tax filing deadline amid coronavirus outbreak .
2020-03-19 18:52:32 +00:00 .
Pressure is building on the Trump administration to delay this year ’s tax filing deadline , with Democratic and Republican lawmakers joining business groups in demanding that step in response to the coronavirus .
House Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal ( D - Mass. ) wrote to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin Thursday urging him to push the deadline to July 15 .
And a trio of senators introduced legislation that would do the same .
The move would harmonize the filing deadline with the three - month grace period for tax payments that Mnuchin announced Tuesday .
In his letter to Mnuchin , Neal said that having separate deadlines for filing and paying “ will potentially create a great deal of confusion for taxpayers accustomed to having only one deadline . ”
He also cited the closure of some IRS assistance centers across the country .
In introducing their legislation , Sens . John Thune ( R - S.D. ) , Steve Daines ( R - Mont. ) and Angus King ( I - Maine ) said a filing extension also would ensure that taxpayers do n’t have to violate CDC social distancing guidelines , since they may have to meet with an accountant or need to physically retrieve documents to file by April 15 .
People could still file their taxes before July 15 if they choose to , so their refunds would n't be delayed , the senators said in a news release .
“ Treasury ’s decision to extend the tax payment deadline from April 15 to July 15 was an important first step , but it only makes sense to also extend the tax filing deadline itself , ” Thune , who is Senate majority whip , said .
“ There ’s enough confusion amid this outbreak as it is , so I believe it ’s incumbent upon Congress to provide as much clarity and relief as possible to American families . "
In recent days , numerous business groups and organizations representing tax preparers have called on the administration to push back the filing deadline .
Businesses have also sought an array of other measures to ease their tax burden during the health crisis .
Neal also asked Mnuchin to delay payment of estimated taxes for the second quarter of 2020 , noting they would otherwise be due June 15 .

PSA: The Federal Tax Deferment Is Not A Filing Delay (Yet) .
2020-03-19 17:35:03 +00:00 .
As the world braces for a recession brought about by the COVID-19 outbreak , the 2020 tax season is taking on new urgency .
If you ’re expecting a return , it could come at a life - saving moment when various industries are cutting hours or laying off employees .
If you ’re expecting to owe , you might be worried about how you ’ll afford an extra payment when your budget is already strained .
This past Tuesday , the U.S. Treasury announced a 90 - day delay for federal taxes , and there ’s been talk of other extensions .
So what does that mean for you ?
What Is The 90 - Day Tax Payment Delay ?
The payment delay applies to individual taxpayers who owe less than $ 1 million in federal income tax .
It means you have an extra 90 days from April 15th to send the IRS your payments , with all interest and penalties waived until the period ends .
Yes , that means that the latest you can pay your taxes is July 15th , but the April 15th filing deadline still stands .
But if you ’re not planning on doing your own taxes , you ’re having trouble gathering all your documents right now , your preferred CPA does n’t do things virtually , or you simply do n’t want to worry about filing during the middle of a stressful pandemic , you can still apply for an automatic extension on filing .
That would make your new filing deadline October 15th , 2020 — but keep in mind that extending the filing deadline is just that , and does n’t further extend your payment deadline .
If you ’re going to owe , you ’ll have to estimate how much and start making payments before you file in October .
This is all , of course , if further delays and extensions are n’t enacted .
The Hill has reported that the American Institute of CPAs ( AICPA ) is encouraging the Treasury Department to extend the filing deadline as well .
The payment delay is n’t particularly helpful if you ’re expecting a refund or have already made your tax payments — whether the government will adopt further measures to help struggling Americans remains to be seen .
But What About State Taxes ?
Unfortunately , most states at this point have not announced a filing extension or payment delay .
California has pushed back the filing deadline for individuals and businesses whose ability to file on time may have been affected by COVID-19 , and Connecticut and Maryland have extended the deadline for certain businesses .
South Carolina tax returns and payments are now due by June 1st .
Many states have announced that they are prepared to follow the example of the IRS ; if the filing date for federal taxes is extended , they would delay state deadlines too .
Representatives from New York state have called for the IRS to extend the filing deadline .
You can still request a state filing extension , and some states , like Alabama , grant automatic extensions without the need to request one .
A full list of state extension rules can be accessed here .
A list of state tax filing changes and agency closures and can be seen here .
Like what you see ?
How about some more R29 goodness , right here ?
6 Cheap Ways To Do Your Taxes Online
Should You Do Your Own Taxes ?
When To Pay Vs Do At
Funny Tax Season Memes To Laugh
At In 2020

Is spring break over? Local Florida officials close beaches after gov refuses to .
2020-03-19 16:51:16 +00:00 .
Local officials in Florida towns and cities are taking it upon themselves to close beaches amid the coronavirus outbreak after Gov. Ron DeSantis refused to , even as spring breakers and others crowd the shores .
At the height of the college break rush , DeSantis on Tuesday said he would not order the beaches closed , but he did limit parties on beaches to 10 people per group .
DeSantis said it 's " not uniform throughout the state that you 're seeing massive crowds at beaches , " despite reports and images of people packing the sand .
Image :
Spring break revelers play chicken fight at Pompano Beach , Fla. , on March 17 , 2020 .
( Julio Cortez / AP )
More
Still , the mayors of Miami Beach and Fort Lauderdale , two of the most popular beach destinations in the state , issued orders to close their beaches this past Sunday .
Public beaches in the city of Tampa are also closed , until further notice , city officials said .
Naples announced Wednesday that it would close its beaches until March 30 .
Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak
All public beaches in Miami - Dade County will close as of Thursday night , Mayor Carlos A. Gimenez announced Wednesday .
Parks , nonessential retail , private educational facilities , casinos and other recreational and entertainment activities , are also ordered closed or restricted as of Thursday night , he said .
On the state 's Gulf Coast , beaches in Lee County will also close Thursday night , according to county officials .
Popular beach vacation destinations Fort Myers and Sanibel are located in Lee .
On Wednesday , Clearwater voted to close its beaches starting Monday , March 23 .
Clearwater Beach was relatively busy Wednesday with locals and visitors who said they chose not to cancel planned vacations over coronavirus fears .
" I feel like we 're not gon na stop our life because of that , but we 'll definitely keep precautions , " said Anamaria Nowak , 20 , who was there with a friend .
" We did n't come with a group of friends .
We 're gon na stay by ourselves and not share our things . "
College students and younger people in general have been criticized for not taking the virus seriously and for seeming to disregard that they could carry it to higher - risk people like the elderly .
Nearly 330 people in Florida have tested positive for COVID-19 , the state 's department of health reported Wednesday night .
Eight Florida residents have died .

Coronavirus: These are the 16 main developments that have happened today .
2020-03-19 15:36:57 +00:00 .
Here ’s what you need to know on 19 March .
This article was updated at 3 pm
Deaths : Three people have died in Scotland bringing the total to six .
Northern Ireland announced its first coronavirus death .
There have been two deaths in Wales .
England has a total of 128 deaths related to Covid-19 .
Finance : The Bank of England has cut interest rates to a record low as it said financial conditions in the UK and globally have “ tightened ” in recent days due to weaker market conditions .
Read more here .
Supermarkets : John Lewis and Waitrose have become the latest retailers to announce limits on the purchase of some items amid the coronavirus pandemic .
It comes after rivals Tesco , Sainsbury ’s , Aldi , Asda and Morrisons all announced similar measures to ease stockpiling pressures .
Read more here .
Supermarkets are also expecting police support in the event of more panic buying according to the British Retail Consortium .
Legislation : New powers due to be given to the UK ’s governments will be of an order not normally seen in peacetime .
Emergency legislation being published in Parliament includes being able to create a volunteer army .
Read more here .
The army : Soldiers are on standby if needed to support the NHS or be deployed onto the streets .
Read more here .
Insurance : Insurance firms are expected to show flexibility to customers as people alter their routines due to coronavirus .
They have been told they must recognise the circumstances that customers may find themselves in .
This could mean , for example , working from home or taking their car to work rather than public transport .
Sport : Professional football in England and Wales will be suspended until 30 April .
A joint statement from the Premier League , EFL and the Football Association , along with the Women ’s professional game , the Professional Footballers ’ Association and the League Managers ’ Association confirms the bodies commitment to finish the 2019/20 season .
Read more
Brexit : The EU ’s chief negotiator Michel Barnier has contracted Covid-19 .
It comes as Boris Johnson says he remains committed to Britain securing a trade deal by the deadline of 31 December .
Education : Funeral care staff should count as key workers , it has been argued , as the government makes plans for how to educate some children and keep most at home .
Transport : Officials have denied there will be a lockdown in London , but have moved to close dozens of Tube stations in the next day to discourage unnecessary journeys .
Read more here .
Positive news
A test which will show if someone had coronavirus but was asymptomatic is close to being developed .
Read more .
Gary Neville and Ryan Giggs have offered their hotels for free to NHS workers .
They ’ve said it will help those who need to isolate from family .
Read more .
Rest of the world
Italy : A town near Venice reportedly stopped new coronavirus infections after imposing a strict quarantine .
Read more .
China : China reported no new domestic cases of Covid-19 for the first time since the outbreak .
Read more .
Spain : 17 people died in one day in a care home .
An investigation is under way .
Read more .
Russia :
The first coronavirus - related death has been reported , as an unnamed 79 - year - old woman in Moscow with underlying health issues died from pneumonia after testing positive for the virus .
Read more .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of Covid-19 cases in your local area
Explained : Symptoms , latest advice and how it compares to the flu

Ford Suspends Dividend, Draws $15.4 Billion From Credit Lines .
2020-03-19 14:25:28 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Ford Motor Co. suspended the dividend that management repeatedly vowed to maintain even through a downturn as a global pandemic forces the struggling automaker to protect its cash reserves .
The company took the step to prioritize financial flexibility and investments in new - product launches this year , according to a statement .
Ford also will fully draw $ 15.4 billion from two credit lines and retracted the 2020 earnings guidance it gave investors Feb. 4 .
“ While we obviously did n’t foresee the coronavirus pandemic , we have maintained a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity so that we could weather economic uncertainty and continue to invest in our future , ” Chief Executive Officer Jim Hackett said in the statement .
“ I ’m confident in the actions we are taking to navigate the current uncertainty while continuing to build toward the future . ”
Ford shares fell as much as 8.9 % shortly after the start of regular trading .
The stock , which as of early this month had fallen further under Hackett than his predecessor , closed Wednesday at the lowest since April 2009 .
Hackett , 64 , took the steps to bulk up on cash hours before Ford halts production at all its North American factories through March 30 for deep cleaning .
The shutdown will cost the company $ 1 billion in lost earnings before interest and taxes , Michael Ward , an analyst at Benchmark Co. , estimated in a note to clients earlier Thursday .
Ford will lose about 140,000 vehicles of production during the 11 - day shutdown , or about $ 5.3 billion of revenue , he wrote .
Ward lowered earnings estimates for the carmaker , which he rates a hold .
Analysts have speculated in the wake of the virus that factory closings and the global slowdown of vehicle purchases probably would force Ford management ’s hand .
Then - CFO Bob Shanks said in August 2018 that reports the dividend was at risk were “ baseless . ”
“ The dividend ’s been a legendary value creator at Ford , ” Hackett said Feb. 4 .
“ I want to continue that , because we said we could do it , and right now we can . ”
Joseph Spak , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets , predicted a dividend cut last week , writing in a report that the $ 2.4 billion annual cost of the dividend would be too much of a burden for a company that ’s repeatedly come up short with its earnings and just issued a disappointing profit forecast for the year .
Hackett recently shook up management by appointing Jim Farley chief operating officer and gave him a mandate to accelerate an $ 11 billion restructuring .
Credit - ratings companies have raised concerns about the efficacy of those efforts , with Moody ’s Investors Service downgrading Ford to junk and SP Global Ratings cutting the company to the lowest rung of investment grade rating last year .
Ford ’s board of directors last week cemented Farley ’s status as heir apparent to Hackett by disclosing it had arranged a $ 2.5 million stock award for the 57 - year - old if he is not named the next CEO .
The 15 - cent quarterly dividend Ford had been paying provided tens of millions in annual income to owners of the Class B stock that only the progeny of Henry Ford can hold , which gives them 40 % voting control over the company .
Executive Chairman Bill Ford , Henry ’s great grandson , and his cousin Edsel Ford II are on the company ’s board and among several family members still involved in running the company .
( Updates with factory shutdowns in fifth paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

22 Retailers With Store Closures or Reduced Hours Due to the Coronavirus .
2020-03-19 14:16:23 +00:00 .
In response to supply - chain breakdowns and in an effort to help stop the spread of the coronavirus among staff and customers , stores are opting to either temporarily close their doors ( and even cease online operations as well ) , drastically scale back their hours of operation or designate specific times when only high - risk consumers ( such as seniors ) can shop in - store .
We 've compiled a list of popular brick - and - mortar U.S. retailers that are scaling back or shutting down operations .
Most of their e - commerce sites and mobile apps are still up and running .
Take a look .
American Eagle Outfitters :
Store locations are closed through at least March 28 .
Apple : All retail stores are closed until further notice .
Columbia Sportswear : Store locations are closed through at least March 27 .
Dick 's Sporting Goods : Store hours have temporarily changed at all Dick 's Sporting Goods , Golf Galaxy and Field Stream locations effective March 17 : Monday through Friday , 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. ; Saturday , 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. ; Sunday , 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Dollar General : The first hour of each shopping day will be designated exclusively for senior shoppers .
Also , store locations will be amending their operating hours effective March 17 .
This includes closing one hour earlier to allow employees to clean and re - stock shelves .
Check with your local store location for specific details .
Foot Locker :
Stores are closed through at least March 31 .
HM : All store locations are closed through at least April 1 .
IKEA : All store locations and the IKEA Planning Studio in New York City are closed until further notice .
J. Crew : J.Crew and J.Crew Factory stores
are closed through at least March 28 .
Kohl 's : Most stores now operate from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. local time .
Land 's End : Stores are closed through at least March 29 .
Lululemon : Stores are closed through at least March 27 .
Macy 's : All Macy 's , Bloomingdale 's , bluemercury , Macy 's Backstage , Bloomingdale 's the Outlet and Market by Macy 's store locations are closed through at least March 31 .
Neiman Marcus : All Neiman Marcus , Bergdorf Goodman and Last Call stores
are closed through at least March 31 .
New Balance : Stores are closed through at least March 27 .
Nike : Retail locations are closed through at least March 27 .
Nordstrom : All stores are closed through at least March 31 .
Patagonia : All brick - and - mortar and e - commerce operations
are closed until further notice .
The company promises another update on March 23 .
Ralph Lauren :
Stores are closed through at least April 1 .
REI : All store locations are closed through at least March 27 .
Target :
All stores close at 9 p.m. to allow for additional cleaning and restocking .
Every Wednesday , the first hour of normal store hours is available exclusively for vulnerable customers , including senior shoppers or those with underlying health concerns .
Urban Outfitters :
Stores are closed through at least March 28 .
EDITOR 'S PICKS Copyright 2020
The Kiplinger Washington Editors

Coronavirus: Hong Kong confirms 16 new cases with health officials to probe possible infection spread in city’s entertainment hub of Lan Kwai Fong .
2020-03-19 09:44:32 +00:00 .
Hong Kong health officials say they will investigate the possible spread of infection in bars , restaurants and gyms in the city 's entertainment hotspot of Soho as they recorded 16 new coronavirus cases on Thursday , three of whom had visited the nightlife hub of Lan Kwai Fong .
Dr Chuang Shuk - kwan , head of the communicable disease branch of the Centre for Health Protection , said at least three of the new cases were linked to Lan Kwai Fong in Central , the city ’s nightlife hub .
Two other patients confirmed a day earlier had previously visited the area .
“ We are looking at whether there is a spread among bars and restaurants in Lan Kwai Fong , ” she said , during the daily press conference .
The latest additions take the total number of people infected in Hong Kong to 208 , with four fatalities .
The new cases were announced after the city on Wednesday confirmed 25 more people were infected , the most recorded in a single day , and as Hongkongers rushed back before the government ’s toughest quarantine measures yet against Covid-19 came into force at midnight .
From Thursday , all arrivals from overseas into Hong Kong must undergo 14 - day self - isolation at home or in quarantine centres followed by two weeks of medical surveillance .
Arrivals from mainland China are already required to self - isolate at home .
Crowds built up in the arrival halls of Hong Kong International Airport early on Thursday as the measures were rolled out , which require people to wear a wristband so they can be monitored .
At least eight hotels have offered a total of 1,000 rooms to bolster Hong Kong ’s quarantine facilities , with health officials voicing concerns the city would run out of capacity over the coming weeks because of the influx of Hongkongers returning to the city .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : Hong Kong confirms 16 new cases with health officials to probe possible infection spread in city ’s entertainment hub of Lan Kwai Fong first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

A new study pins down the source of the 'rapid spread' of the coronavirus in China — people with little or no symptoms .
2020-03-19 09:25:35 +00:00 .
People who had not been diagnosed with COVID-19 were the source of 79 % of reported cases in China .
If undiagnosed people had n't spread the virus , the number of cases could have been reduced by 66 % in Wuhan and 79 % across all of China , the study reports .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
In China , an estimated 86 % of COVID-19 infections went undiagnosed before the country 's travel ban was enacted on January 23 , according to a new study published in Science on Monday .
Because there were so many undocumented cases of infection in China at that time , it was these people with undiagnosed COVID-19 coronavirus who spread it the most , leading to the " rapid spread of the virus throughout Chinam , " the researchers report .
Using mathematical models to simulate the spread of the virus , the researchers calculated the contagiousness of people who were reported to have the COVID-19 virus and the estimated number of undocumented cases .
The researchers found that undocumented cases transmitted the new coronavirus about half as often as documented cases .
But there were a lot more of undocumented cases .
As a result , people who had not been diagnosed were the source of about eight out of every 10 infected cases in China prior to January 23 .
The authors — who included researchers from the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis at Imperial College London and collaborators from universities in New York , California , Beijing , and Hong Kong — noted that those who do n't get diagnosed often have mild or even non - existent symptoms .
Consequently , these patients " can expose a far greater portion of the population to virus than would otherwise occur , " the researchers wrote .
They concluded that if the virus among undiagnosed people had n't spread , the cases could have been reduced by 66 % in Wuhan and 79 % across all of China .
As widespread testing lags , public health officials are asking people to stay home to stop the spread of COVID-19
Who does and does not get tested for the COVID-19 virus continues to be a dilemma in many parts of the world .
Many jurisdictions have challenges around offering to test people , getting access to chemicals for tests , and other barriers .
Many in the US who want to be tested are struggling to get access to a swab .
And many of the tests distributed across the country in late January did n't work .
The federal government is ramping up testing nationwide , but it 's taking time to get people tested .
Canada currently has a national policy that people with no symptoms are not being tested .
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has been exposed , as his wife Sophie tested positive for the virus , but he has not been tested .
He is under a self - imposed 14 - day quarantine .
In the UK , however , while celebrity actor Idris Elba had no symptoms , he took a test that revealed he has COVID-19 .
It 's this asymptomatic transmission that is why the Trump administration is asking Americans to stay home if they can , avoid groups larger than 10 people , and to stop going to public places like bars and restaurants .
During a press briefing on Monday , Dr. Deborah Leah Birx , the White House 's coronavirus response coordinator , encouraged all Americans — young people in particular — to socially distance themselves in order to curb the spread of COVID-19 .
" The reason we 're taking these strong and bold steps is because we know there is virus spread before you develop symptoms , " she said , " and then we know that there 's a large group — we do n't know the precise percent yet — that actually is asymptomatic or has such mild cases that they continue to spread the virus . "
Business Insider

Virus ship lockdown ends in Melbourne .
2020-03-19 08:07:00 +00:00 .
More than 2000 cruise ship passengers and crew will be allowed to disembark in Melbourne after being cleared of the coronavirus .
The Golden Princess docked at Station Pier in Port Melbourne on Thursday morning , but disembarkation was delayed until the ship received clearance from Victorian health authorities .
The announcement that tests had returned negative came about 3.45pm , several hours after passengers ' family and friends arrived at the pier to pick them up .
Passengers cheered the announcement while waving to those waiting on the pier .
It is understood it will take a few hours yet for them to leave the ship .
Damien Bourke arrived to see the ship dock about 5 am and has waited on two friends since .
" My friend rang me and said somebody got tested and they are going to wait until possibly 3 pm before they can get off the boat , " Mr Bourke told AAP .
The 2200 passengers left Melbourne on March 10 on a scheduled 13 - night cruise to New Zealand .
But their trip was cut short when Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced a ban on cruise ships from foreign ports arriving in Australia .
Golden Princess said their ship arrived in Melbourne on Thursday in accordance with the Australian government 's arrangements .
A spokesman for the company said the tests were carried out " purely as a precautionary step " .
" Guests will disembark the ship and must now complete 14 days self - isolation in line with government requirements for arrivals from foreign destinations . "

Coronavirus: Scott Morrison closes Australian borders to non-residents .
2020-03-19 08:06:52 +00:00 .
Australia is implementing a new travel ban preventing all non - Australian citizens and residents from coming to the country amid the coronavirus crisis .
Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Australians could still return but would still have to self - isolate for 14 days .
“ After further consultation with the National Security Committee ... we will be resolving to move to a position where a travel ban will be placed on all non - Australian citizens coming to Australia , ” he said .
It will come into effect at 9 pm Friday night .
Mr Morrison said there had already been a significant reduction in the travel to Australia by non - citizens and non - residents .
“ It is about a third of what it would normally be at this time of the year and we have seen reductions – even in the last few days when we put in place the bans which require people to self - isolate for 14 days , ” he said .
“ On that decision , the traffic has reduced quite significantly . ”
Coronavirus live blog : Latest news and updates about the crisis in Australia
Mr Morrison said the arrangement would be implemented over the next 24 hours to give people to make other arrangements if they were intending to come to Australia .
“ For Australians , of course , they will be able to return and they will be subject , as they already are , to 14 days of isolation upon arrival back in Australia . ”
Treasurer Josh Frydenberg and Prime Minister Scott Morrison announce travel ban for non - Australian citizens and residents .
Source : AAP
More Mr Morrison said about 80 per cent of coronavirus cases in Australia were the result of somebody who had contracted the virus overseas or someone who had direct contact with somebody who returned from overseas .
“ The overwhelming proportion of cases in Australia have been imported , ” he said .
“ Measures we have put in place have obviously put an impact on that and this is a further measure now that can be further enhanced . ”
Qantas and Virgin cancel all international flights
The announcement comes after Qantas announced it would ground all international flights and stand down the majority of its 30,000 employees until the end of May at the earliest as the carrier battles Covid-19 ’s devastating effects .
Two - thirds of the company ’s employees will be temporarily stood down and take paid or unpaid leave , with the company saying the move is to try to preserve as many jobs as possible .
Qantas has suspended all international flights .
Source : Getty
More
The airline is cutting all international flights from late March , after it recently announced 90 per cent of international flights would be suspended .
Virgin Australia announced on Wednesday it would suspend all international flights and would extend cuts to domestic capacity as the coronavirus outbreak takes its toll on the airline sector .
The airline said it would suspend all international flying from March 30 to June 14 and reduce group domestic capacity by 50 per cent .
This is the equivalent of grounding 53 aircraft .
Do you have a story tip ?
Email :
newsroomau@yahoonews.com .
You can also follow us on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play .

Coronavirus: Hong Kong fitness chain Pure Group under fire for continuing classes after member tests positive for Covid-19 .
2020-03-19 06:13:53 +00:00 .
Angry customers of a popular yoga and fitness chain in Hong Kong have complained about its refusal to close down some branches recently visited by a member who has contracted the coronavirus .
The Pure Group , which has at least 12 yoga centres and 11 fitness centres across the city , sent a message to its members on Thursday , confirming one member had tested positive for the coronavirus .
In the message , it said the individual appeared to have recently visited three centres in Central – Pure Fitness California Tower on March 11 , Pure Fitness ICBC Tower on March 14 and Pure Fitness Kinwick Centre on Monday .
They started feeling unwell on Tuesday and tested positive for the virus on Wednesday .
The Pure Group has at least 12 yoga centres and 11 fitness centres across Hong Kong .
Photo :
Handout
More
Instead of closing the centres , the Pure Group said it had the three locations deep - cleaned and disinfected by a third party , and assured members that the locations were safe to use .
The company ’s social media pages were on Thursday morning filled with dozens of angry messages from its members , with many asking for more details about the Covid-19 patient .
Some also said the company should not have continued operations after the infection was confirmed .
More than 450 members have signed an online petition , demanding a waiver of the HK$288 ( US$ 37 ) monthly charge for suspending their memberships .
The yoga group allows members to suspend their memberships twice in a calendar year and for a maximum period of three months each time , against HKD $ 288 a month .
“ Very selfish and irresponsible corporate , ” one message read .
“ When gyms and fitness centres from around the world are closed , this … insists to stay open , running classes in small rooms and passing the risks of infection to its members . ”
“ I am a doctor working in a public hospital , ” another message read .
“ I have suspended my membership as I ’m worried that I may get infected from my work and also infect other members .
I am wondering given this reason , if the suspension fee can be waived . ”
Another member , Maggie , told the Post she had sent an email to the company raising her concerns .
“ The virus patient might have only used the fitness facilities , and not those for yoga .
But still , the patient could have shared facilities such as toilets , showers and lockers . ”
“ The way Pure has been handling its operations amid the coronavirus scare is worrying .
Just ‘ deep - cleaning ’ the space or offering hand sanitisers are n’t enough .
They need to update their strategies , such as limiting class size .
They have still been cramping everyone in a small classroom for yoga , ” she said .
The Post has contacted the Pure Group for comments .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : Hong Kong fitness chain Pure Group under fire for continuing classes after member tests positive for Covid-19 first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Sanders Online Events Dwarf Biden’s in Viewers: Campaign Update .
2020-03-19 04:47:30 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Bernie Sanders drew 5.3 million views at three online campaign events , with the help of friends like Neil Young .
On Saturday , the Vermont senator hosted an FDR - style “ fireside chat ” livestreamed from his home in Burlington that his campaign said was viewed more than 2.8 million times .
He picked up another 1 million views with an hourlong policy video program .
And he racked up 1.6 million views with a “ digital rally ” on Monday that featured appearances by Young , actress Daryl Hannah , Jim James of My Morning Jacket and the Free Nationals .
The numbers dwarfed those watching a tele - town hall held by former Vice President Joe Biden about the coronavirus pandemic on Monday .
Biden said his staff told him 35,000 to 38,000 people called in .
Another virtual town hall hosted by Biden on Friday was marred by technical glitches .
Maryland Postpones April Presidential Primary ( 11:33 a.m. )
Concerns over the coronavirus have upended the Democratic primary calendar , as five states have postponed elections .
Maryland Governor Larry Hogan announced Tuesday that the state ’s primary would be pushed back from April 28 to June 2 , the last possible day for the state to comply with primary rules from the Democratic National Committee .
Maryland will join the already scheduled elections in Montana , New Jersey , New Mexico , South Dakota and Washington , D.C. , on that day , as well as possibly Ohio , which canceled an election scheduled for Tuesday at the last minute .
Three other states are moving ahead with changes .
In Georgia , officials have sought to push the March 24 primary to May 19 .
Meantime , in Kentucky , officials are looking to delay their primary from May 19 to June 23 .
And in Louisiana , the election has been rescheduled from April 4 to June 20 .
Biden Gets Secret Service Protection ( 10:40 a.m. )
Joe Biden has officially received Secret Service protection , more than four months later than Donald Trump ’s detail was assigned in the 2016 election .
A Secret Service spokesperson told Bloomberg News that the agency had begun full protective coverage for Biden after receiving his request .
Biden , whose Secret Service codename as vice president was Celtic in a nod to his Irish roots , first considered requesting protection two weeks ago , after anti - dairy protesters stormed the stage at an event in Los Angeles .
Trump requested Secret Service protection in late October of 2015 and received it on Nov. 5 of that year .
-- Jennifer Epstein
Coming Up Puerto Rico will hold a Democratic primary on March 29 .
Alaska and Hawaii will hold Democratic primaries on April 4 , while Wyoming will hold Democratic caucuses .
( Disclaimer : Michael Bloomberg , the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP , also sought the Democratic presidential nomination .
He endorsed Joe Biden on March 4 . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Airline industry turmoil deepens as coronavirus pain spreads .
2020-03-18 23:38:01 +00:00 .
By Jamie Freed SYDNEY ( Reuters ) - Airline industry turmoil deepened on Thursday as Qantas Airways Ltd QAN.AX told most of its 30,000 employees to take leave and India prepared a rescue package of up to $ 1.6 billion to aid carriers battered by coronavirus , government sources said .
The U.N. 's International Civil Aviation Organization called on governments to ensure cargo operations were not disrupted to maintain the availability of critical medications and equipment such as ventilators , masks , and other health and hygiene items that will help reduce the spread of the coronavirus pandemic .
Passenger operations have collapsed at an unprecedented rate as the virus spreads around the world , with Delta Air Lines Inc DAL.N parking more than 600 jets , cutting corporate pay by as much as 50 % , and scaling back its flying by more than 70 % until demand begins to recover from the coronavirus epidemic hit .
Shares in U.S. airlines fell sharply on Wednesday after Washington proposed a rescue package of $ 50 billion in loans , but no grants as the industry had requested , to help address the financial impact from the deepening coronavirus crisis .
The Trump administration 's lending proposal would require airlines to maintain a certain amount of service and limit increases in executive compensation until the loans are repaid .
In Australia , Qantas said it would cut all international flights after the Australian government warned against overseas travel and two - thirds of its workforce would need to take paid or unpaid leave .
" The sad fact is that due to circumstances beyond our control , travel demand has evaporated , " Qantas Chief Executive Alan Joyce said in a memo to staff seen by Reuters .
" We have no work for most of our people . "
Senior Qantas executives and the board will take a 100 % pay cut until at least the end of the financial year ending June 30 , up from 30 % earlier , joining the chairman and CEO in taking no pay , the airline said .
In China , the epicenter of the outbreak , its biggest state - backed carriers reported a 80 % plunge in passengers carried in February and said they would further optimize capacity and step up cost - cutting .
As countries step up border restrictions , more flights are being cut .
Air Canada AC.TO said it was gradually suspending the majority of its international and U.S. transborder flights by March 31 .
India is poised to join a growing list of countries offering aid to its aviation industry .
The Finance Ministry is considering a proposal worth up to $ 1.6 billion that includes temporary suspension of most taxes levied on the sector , according to two government sources who have direct knowledge of the matter .
New Zealand on Thursday outlined the first tranche of a NZ$600 million ( $ 344 million ) aviation relief package , including financial support for airlines to pay government passenger charges and cover air traffic control fees .
Air New Zealand Ltd AIR.NZ said it would close its cabin crew base in London earlier than initially planned , leading to the loss of 130 jobs .
( Reporting by Jamie Freed ; additional reporting by Aftab Ahmed and Aditi Shah in New Delhi , Tracy Rucinski in Chicago , David Shepardson in Washington , Allison Lampert in Montreal , Praveen Menon in Wellington and Nikhil Kurian Nainan in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Lincoln Feast . )

Expedia Vice Chairman Tells Employees It’s Time to Focus and Help Our Travel Partners .
2020-03-18 21:59:05 +00:00 .
In an internal letter to employees , Expedia Group Vice Chairman Peter Kern told staff to set aside any projects that do n’t contribute to meeting the company ’s immediate needs and exhorted employees to help travel partners find business anywhere they can .
“ If you ’re wondering how we might help our travel partners survive all this , well , our travel partners need whatever business they can find , ” Kern wrote in a message to employees on Monday that was obtained by Skift .
“ So if there is travel going on out there , we need to find it and book it for them . ”
Although Kern advocates that Expedia staffers find travel to book for the benefit of travel partners , some destinations , such as Florida , are being criticized for not taking stronger action against travel .
Kern ’s March 16 letter to employees , along with another one signed by Expedia Group Chairman and senior executive Barry Diller , Kern and the leadership team that went out to employees March 12 are embedded below .
Kern acknowledged the depth of the coronavirus crisis , noting priorities include helping “ confused and scared customers who are swamping our call centers , ” and assisting travel partners in their quests to survive .
“ How do we keep everyone safe ? ”
Kern wrote .
“ And of course , how do we survive and come out stronger at the end than we were when this crisis started ? ”
Kern told employees if they are working on anything that ca n’t be immediately deployed to assist the current effort , then “ raise your hand and tell your manager that you can help out elsewhere so we can find a way to use your talents for the greater good . ”
He emphasized that the company would postpone “ our goal - setting exercise this quarter . ”
The global economic recovery depends in part “ on travel coming back in a real way , ” Kern said .
A letter a few days earlier from Diller , Kern and the leadership team , cited “ our recent reorganization and all those stresses . ”
The reorganization , geared to generate up to $ 500 million in run rate cost reductions in 2020 , included layoffs of around 12 percent of the workforce .
Kern and Diller are essentially running Expedia Group ’s day - to - day operations after the board pushed out CEO Mark Okerstrom and Chief Financial Officer Alan Pickerill in early December .
“ Of course we ’ll come out of this , and like any real crisis , we will be the better for it because of what we ’ve learned and mastered in the process , ” the March 12 letter said .
“ In the meantime , I hope you know you have the hard rock support of all of us . ”
Like most stocks , particularly those in travel , Expedia shares have been hammered .
Its shares are down 62 percent in the past month to close Wednesday at $ 45.65 .
Skift Senior Travel Tech Editor Sean O’Neill contributed to this report .
Download ( PDF , 37 KB )
Download ( PDF , 24 KB )
Subscribe to Skift newsletters for essential news about the business of travel .

Ford and General Motors announce factory closures due to coronavirus .
2020-03-18 20:35:32 +00:00 .
As governments implement stricter social distancing measures to slow the spread of novel coronavirus , formally known as COVID-19 , automakers are beginning to shut down factories in North America and Europe .
Honda announced on Wednesday that it would suspend production at all assembly plants in the United States , Canada , and Mexico for six days beginning March 23 .
The suspension is due to “ an anticipated decline in market demand ” related to the pandemic , a Honda statement said .
Engine and transmission factories that supply Honda ’s North American assembly plants will close during the same period .
Honda said it will continue full pay for all 27,600 workers affected by the shutdown and will use the downtime to clean all facilities .
The automaker expects the six - day stoppage to reduce production by 40,000 cars .
Honda plans to resume production on March 31 , and said it will implement a “ measured approach to sales that aligns production with market demand . ”
Ford and General Motors soon joined Honda , announcing temporary production shutdowns at all North American factories .
The two largest U.S. automakers , along with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles ( FCA ) and the United Auto Workers ( UAW ) , previously created a coronavirus task force to provide better protection to workers , but those plans will largely be mooted by factory closures .
FCA has said it will institute rotating shifts to maintain social distancing between workers .
Ford said it would halt production at all factories in the U.S. , Canada , and Mexico after Thursday evening ’s shifts , and keep the factories closed until March 30 .
The facilities will be cleaned during the shutdown , a Ford statement said .
Ford did not discuss payment for idled workers but said it would use the downtime to work with the UAW on social distancing practices for when the plants reopen .
The automaker has already closed its Michigan Assembly Plant because an employee tested positive for COVID-19 , and has suspended production in Europe until March 19 .
GM has also suspended production until March 30 , and status will be “ reevaluated week - to - week after that , ” according to a statement from the automaker .
As with Ford and Honda , GM plans to clean factories while they are idled .
In addition to employee health concerns , GM cited “ market conditions ” as a reason for the shutdown .
Tesla is expected to close its Fremont , California , factory to comply with a local “ shelter in place ” order shuttering all nonessential business .
Tesla initially tried to keep the factory open , but the Alameda County Sheriff subsequently confirmed via Twitter that car production was not considered essential .
The Sheriff said Tesla could continue “ minimum basic operations , ” defined as “ the minimum necessary activities to maintain the value of the business ’s inventory , ensure security , process payroll , and employee benefits , or for related functions , ” as well as “ the minimum necessary activities to facilitate employees of the business being able to continue to work remotely from their residences . ”
Tesla was forced to temporarily close its Chinese factory in January as part of nationwide efforts to contain the outbreak there .
Rolls - Royce confirmed Wednesday that it would suspend production at its Goodwood , England , factory for two weeks beginning March 23 .
Shutting down factories is a response not only to the pandemic , but also to an anticipated decline in car sales .
Social distancing measures are likely to reduce traffic in showrooms , and the economic impact of those measures will also deter people from making big purchases .
Updated on March 18 , 2020 : Added confirmation of Ford and GM factory shutdowns .

Coronavirus in sport: Boxing schedule changes with Dubois vs Joyce among fights moved or postponed .
2020-03-18 20:28:46 +00:00 .
The boxing calendar has been left in disarray due to the coronavirus pandemic with a growing number of fights scheduled or postponed over the coming months .
With the government advising against mass gatherings and with emergency workers no longer able to support events due to the Covid-19 outbreak , boxing has been effectively put on hold until May at the earliest .
The British Boxing Board of Control this week made the decision to postpone all public boxing events under its jurisdiction - a decision the sport 's governing body will review again in April .
Both Matchroom Boxing and Queensbury Promotions have now postponed or rescheduled some of their upcoming bouts - including the all - London heavyweight clash between Daniel Dubois and Joe Joyce - with Top Rank doing likewise in the US with more changes to the calendar possibly to follow .
Here 's every fight to be postponed or rescheduled so far ...
20 March : MTK Golden Contract semi - finals - POSTPONED
New date
TBC 21 March : Mairis Briedis vs Yuniel Dorticos - RESCHEDULED
Fight moved to 16 May 28 March :
Artur Beterbiev vs Meng Fanlong - POSTPONED New date TBC
28 March : Josh Kelly vs David Avanesyan - POSTPONED ,
Fight to be added to another Matchroom card later this year
Joshua Buatsi and Conor Benn undercard fights also moved to future Matchroom cards 3 April :
Ultimate Boxxer , POSTPONED
New date TBC 4 April : Lewis Ritson vs Miguel Vazquez - RESCHEDULED
Fight moved to 27 June 11 April :
Daniel Dubois vs Joe Joyce - RESCHEDULED
Fight moved to 11 July 11 April :
Anthony Yarde vs Lyndon Arthur - RESCHEDULED
Fight moved to 11 July 17 April :
Regis Prograis vs Maurice Hooker - POSTPONED New date TBC 24 April :
Terri Harper vs Natasha Jonas - RESCHEDULED
Fight to be moved to June date 25 April :
Naoya Inoue vs John Riel Casemiro , POSTPONED
New date
TBC 2 May : Josh Taylor vs Apinun Khongsong - POSTPONED
New date
TBC

Canada’s Stock Market Extends Plunge to Lowest in Eight Years .
2020-03-18 19:05:36 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Canadian stocks tumbled to its lowest since 2012 as a fiscal stimulus package unveiled by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau Wednesday offered little comfort to investors concerned the nation ’s economy will move into a recession .
The SP / TSX Composite fell 10 % , its biggest drop since July 2012 , as markets reopened after a 15 - minute trading halt earlier in the day .
Trudeau announced fiscal measures worth a combined C$ 82 billion ( $ 56.7 billion ) , including C$ 27 billion in direct support for individuals and companies and C$ 55 billion in temporary tax deferrals for both households and businesses .
Still , the loonie continued its decline against the U.S. dollar , falling as low as 68 U.S. cents .
U.S. President Donald Trump also held a news conference on his administration ’s response to the coronavirus where he said he ’s trying to hash out what monetary payments will look like for Americans .
The Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said the central bank will factor in new government fiscal measures into analysis before setting rates .
He added that the central bank is not ruling out more action before scheduled April 15 rate decision .
Meanwhile , oil dropped to its lowest in 18 years after Saudi Arabia made another shock - and - awe attack in its price war with Russia .
Plunging oil prices and the Covid-19 pandemic that has shut several borders across the world will inevitably lead to a recession in Canada , according to CIBC ’s Chief Economist Avery Shenfeld .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Detroit automakers agree to UAW request to shutter U.S. plants .
2020-03-18 18:37:09 +00:00 .
By Ben Klayman DETROIT ( Reuters ) -
The Detroit Three automakers will shut down their U.S. plants to stop the spread of coronavirus , bowing to pressure from the union representing about 150,000 hourly workers at those facilities , industry officials said .
Ford Motor Co F.N and General Motors Co GM.N confirmed the decisions to shut U.S. plants , as well as factories in Canada and Mexico .
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV FCHA.MI was expected to follow suit .
The Detroit automakers ' shares took a beating on Wednesday , with GM falling more than 25 % .
Ford fell 17 % and Fiat Chrysler was down 16 % .
The Detroit automakers ' North American factories build their most profitable trucks and sport utility vehicles , such as Fiat Chrysler 's Jeep Wrangler , GM 's Chevrolet Silverado pickup and the Ford F - series truck line .
The actions come less than a day after the automakers and the United Auto Workers union agreed to keep plants running with reduced shifts and staffing , and more time allowed for cleaning .
But that deal was put aside on Wednesday morning after Honda Motor Co said it would shut its North American factories for six days because of a slump in demand , and a worker at a Ford assembly plant in Michigan tested positive for the coronavirus .
Ford on Wednesday morning closed the final assembly building at its complex in Wayne , Michigan , where it builds the Ranger pickup truck and will assemble Bronco sport utility vehicles .
Ford said it would close all its North American plants after Thursday evening 's shifts through March 30 to thoroughly clean the factories in the United States , Canada and Mexico .
United Auto Workers ( UAW ) union President Rory Gamble , who had previously called on the automakers to close their U.S. plants , in a Wednesday statement called the shutdowns " the prudent thing to do . "
Ford North American President Kumar Galhotra said the No . 2 U.S. automaker was working closely with union leaders to protect workers .
“ In these unprecedented times , we ’re exploring unique and creative solutions to support our workforce , customers , dealers , suppliers and communities , ” he said in the same statement .
" Recent developments in North America make it clear this is the right thing to do now , " GM Chief Executive Mary Barra said in a separate statement .
Meanwhile , other automakers in North America are still operating assembly plants .
German automaker BMW BMWG.DE said its assembly operation in Spartanburg , South Carolina , was operating , and the company had taken precautions to separate workers .
Tables and chairs had been removed from break areas , a spokesman said .
Tesla Inc TSLA.O was operating its plant in Fremont , California , on Wednesday , despite a statement from local officials that the factory can not continue to operate as the San Francisco Bay Area began a three - week lockdown .
( Reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit ; Additional reporting by David Shepardson in Washington and Joe White in Detroit ;
Editing by Richard Chang and Matthew Lewis )

Coronavirus sport news updates: Roman Abramovich to aid NHS staff as Fifa meet after Euro 2020 postponed and cricket suspended indefinitely .
2020-03-18 18:15:34 +00:00 .
Uefa made the decision to postpone Euro 2020 until 2021 due to the coronavirus , with the coronavirus still impacting the sport for the foreseeable future .
It should allow for the Premier League and Europe ’s other elite football leagues to finish , not to mention the Champions League and Europa League – though a contingency for those tournaments is yet to be finalised .
The French Open in tennis and the PGA Championship in golf are just two more major events postponed or cancelled due to Covid-19 , while the Olympics in Tokyo this year continues to resist pressure to postpone the Games .
Fifa now plan to meet in an effort to help ease the impact of coronavirus on the football calendar , while the Premier League have joined Uefa in their efforts to finish their respective competitions by 30 June .
While multiple Brooklyn Nets players have now contracted the virus , including NBA superstar Kevin Durant - here ’s how we brought you the latest updates from around the world on Wednesday as coronavirus continued to hit sport hard .
Please allow a moment for updates to load
Uefa has said its aim is to complete the Champions League season by 30 June this year amid the chaos that coronavirus has caused the footballing calendar .
Earlier on Tuesday , Euro 2020 was postponed until 2021 in order to free up space this summer to ensure club football campaigns around Europe can be finished .
In a statement , Uefa said it had convened and “ unanimously agreed ” on a commitment “ to complete all domestic and European club competitions by the end of the current sporting season , i.e. 30 June 2020 at the latest , should the situation improve and resuming playing be appropriate and prudent enough ” .
Uefa also agreed upon the “ possible adaptations of the 2020/21 Uefa Champions League and Uefa Europa League qualifying rounds , ” however , “ in case of late completion of the 2019/20 sporting season , i.e. after 30 June 2020 .

Zara, Nordstrom Join Growing List of Retailers Closing Stores amid Coronavirus Pandemic .
2020-03-18 16:58:26 +00:00 .
As information about the coronavirus pandemic rapidly changes , PEOPLE is committed to providing the most recent data in our coverage .
Some of the information in this story may have changed after publication .
For the latest on COVID-19 , readers are encouraged to use online resources from CDC , WHO , and local public health departments and visit our coronavirus hub .
Zara and Nordstrom are the latest fashion retailers temporarily shutting its doors in an effort to help stop the spread of the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) outbreak .
Zara announced on Wednesday that it will temporarily close all U.S. locations .
“ We are actively monitoring updates from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) and local health authorities , ” the brand said in a statement obtained by PEOPLE .
There is no word yet on when stores plan on reopening .
But for now , shopping on zara.com and on its mobile app remain available .
According to the Independent , the brand ’s parent company Inditex , which is based in Spain and also owns retailers Pull Bear and Bershka , are temporarily closing stores in 39 countries — including 3,785 Zara locations globally .
Those most affected areas include its native Spain and Italy , which are both on nationwide lockdowns .
RELATED :
Stores Are Opening Early for Seniors to Shop Without Crowds amid Coronavirus Fears
Other retailers have also pulled the plug on store operations for the time being , including the Swedish company HM .
The brand released a statement on Tuesday announcing all retail stores across the United States and Canada will close until April 2 to help weaken the spread of COVID-19 .
The company also said it would still support colleagues who are impacted by the closure by providing two weeks of continued pay .
Online shopping services are still open , with free shipping “ for the time being . ”
North American chains like Macy ’s , Saks Fifth Avenue and Nordstrom have also made the call to shut down all stores until the end of the month .
On Tuesday , Nordstrom shared a statement on social media .
“ To help do our part in slowing the spread of COVID-19 we will temporarily close all ours stores for two weeks beginning Tuesday , March 17th . ”
The company will continue to pay employees during the two - week period and provide “ additional resources to help them through this challenging time . ”
Like other competitors , Nordstrom.com will still remain open for online orders .
RELATED : A Running List of Every Festival , Sporting Event and Show Canceled or Postponed in the Wake of the Coronavirus
Jeff Gennette , Chairman and CEO of Macy ’s , Inc. , which also owns Bloomingdale ’s and BlueMercury , released a statement saying , “ The health and safety of our customers , colleagues and communities is our utmost priority .
As a result of the recent COVID-19 developments , we have decided to temporarily close our stores . ”
All three retailers are expected to reopen on March 31st , while macys.com , bloomingdales.com and bluemercury.com will continue taking online orders .
RELATED : Celebrities Who Have Tested Positive for Coronavirus
Saks Fifth Avenue announced late Tuesday that all stores will close for two weeks starting March 18 , and like other retailers , it will continue supporting and paying its employees during the interim period .
Beauty favorites , including Sephora and Ulta have also closed its retail locations .
Ulta shut its doors through “ at least ” March 31 , while Sephora will remain closed until April 3 .

These food companies are giving away free meals for medical workers .
2020-03-18 16:07:53 +00:00 .
Uber and Sweetgreen are giving back to the medical professionals who are working around the clock during the coronavirus outbreak .
On Monday , both companies announced plans to offer free meals to healthcare workers and first responders in the coming days .
Uber will give away over 300,000 meals to those on the front lines in the U.S. and Canada .
“ We ’re doing what we can , ” the company ’s chief financial officer Nelson Chai told CNBC .
Uber 's food delivery platform Uber Eats is also sending some love to small businesses during this difficult time and nixing delivery fees in some of its markets .
“ As more customers are choosing to stay indoors , we ’ve waived the Delivery Fee for the more than 100,000 independent restaurants across US Canada on Uber Eats , ” the company said .
“ We will also launch daily dedicated , targeted marketing campaigns — both in - app and via email — to promote delivery from local restaurants , especially those that are new to the app . ”
The company said they hope the gesture sends a bit of sunshine to medical workers who are working overtime to protect the public : " We know that the work of medical and crisis response teams can be tireless , and the hours long ; we hope we can help in a small way . "
Sweetgreen Sweetgreen , the salad - based fast - casual chain , is also giving thanks to medical professionals in a post on Instagram , writing , " We ’re so grateful for the hospital workers + medical personnel who are putting others before themselves during this critical time . "
The company also vowed to do their part to help keep healthcare professionals well - fed during this hectic time : " In the midst of the current crisis , we ’re dedicating our Outpost operations and teams to support those on the front lines by delivering free , fresh sg salads + bowls to hospitals in the cities we serve . "
Free food delivery
Many food companies are also coming up with creative ways to help Americans enjoy their food despite temporary dining room closures .
In recent days , the following restaurants announced free delivery and other incentives for those practicing " social distancing " at home .
Pizza Work in a hospital ?
Stop by your local Pizza restaurant for a free pizza .
All you have to do is present your valid ID .
Ca n't leave work ?
Text 200 - 03 # HERO to get your pie delivered .
KFC Fried chicken lovers can get free delivery through KFC 's website , Grubhub or Seamless until April 26 .
In - store pick - up is also available at some locations .
Chipotle The fast - casual chain is offering free delivery on all orders over $ 10 through March 31 .
Along with the service , the company is also offering a tamper - evident packaging seal to keep your food safe and allowing customers to leave special instructions for delivery drivers to limit direct contact .
Moe 's Southwest Grill
With many Moe 's dining rooms closed , the restaurant is offering pick - up options and free delivery on all app and website orders of $ 10 or more through April 10 .
Blaze Pizza When the pizza craving inevitably hits , Blaze Pizza is here for you , offering free delivery across the country .
All you have to do is order on their website or app and spend $ 10 or more .
You can also score free delivery on Postmates until March 22 or on DoorDash until March 22 .
Del Taco Del Taco is offering free delivery on Postmates through March 20 ( use the code DELTACONOW ) and free delivery on DoorDash for first - time customers .
The brand is also offering sealed delivery packaging to minimize risk for customers .
El Pollo Loco Along with offering sealed , tamper - proof delivery bags , the company is also offering free delivery on Grubhub at participating locations until April 7 .

Remains of 9-Year-old Florida Girl Found After Years-Long Search .
2020-03-18 11:49:11 +00:00 .
After four years and “ hundreds of hours ” spent searching for missing 9 - year - old Diana Alvarez , Florida authorities announced this week that they have found the little girl ’s remains — and her accused killer may now face the death penalty .
The Lee County Sheriff ’s Office told The Daily Beast a team of surveyors working in a wooded area in Osceola County found Alvarez ’s body on Thursday , about 140 miles from her Fort Myers home , where she vanished in the middle of the night in May 2016 .
Her cause of death has not yet been determined , a sheriff ’s office spokesperson said .
“ My daughter is in heaven .
She ’s with God , ” Diana ’s mother , Rita Hernandez , told WINK after the discovery .
“ I do n’t wish this upon anybody , on nobody because it was n’t her fault . ”
Jorge Guerrero - Torres , a 32 - year - old family friend who previously admitted to sexually assaulting the girl , was indicted by a grand jury on a first - degree murder charge on May 3 , 2018 , in connection with Alvarez ’s disappearance .
He has been previously convicted on child pornography charges related to the case and is currently serving a 40 - year prison sentence .
‘ Come Home ’ : Search Is on for Colorado Boy Who Vanished Two Weeks Ago
The State Attorney ’s office will now seek the death penalty for Guerrero , who has been awaiting trial on the murder charge , a spokesperson told The Daily Beast .
“ The monster that committed this horrendous crime is behind bars and will now be brought to justice for the murder of Diana Alvarez , ” Lee County Sheriff Carmine Marceno said during a Saturday news conference .
“ This does not bring Diana back , but I hope this helps bring closure to the family . ”
On May 29 , 2016 , authorities kicked off a massive , multi - county search that attracted hundreds of volunteers after the 9 - year - old ’s family reported her missing .
During the investigation , deputies discovered that Guerrero - Torres , then 28 , had lived with the Alvarez family , but was kicked out after engaging in an “ inappropriate relationship ” with the 9 - year - old child , authorities said .
Investigators also discovered pornographic images of Alvarez on Guerrero - Torres ’ phone .
According to NBC Miami , Guerrero - Torres made “ admissions ” during a police interview early in the investigation that put him with Alvarez the morning she went missing .
He also admitted to having had sexual contact with the girl on a weekly basis for several months .
Police Search for Missing Texas
Mom
and
Her 2 - Week - Old Baby
In August 2017 , about a year after Alvarez ’s disappearance , Guerrero - Torres was convicted of several federal child pornography charges related to the photographs of Alvarez and sentenced to 40 years in prison .
Despite the momentous discovery of Alvarez ’s body , Guerrero - Torres ’ murder case will not go to court for several months because of new court restrictions prompted by the COVID-19 pandemic .
During a case management hearing on Monday , Lee County Circuit courtroom Judge Margaret O. Steinbeck requested a month - long delay after both prosecutors and the defense expressed difficulties with travel , gathering evidence for the trial , and completing the autopsy report for the 9 - year - old due to the coronavirus .
The Lee County Clerk of Court also told The Daily Beast on Tuesday all jury selection for upcoming criminal trials will be suspended for at least three weeks .
Guerrero - Torres is set to return to court on April 27 .
Read more at The Daily Beast .
Got a tip ?
Send it to The Daily Beast here
Get our top stories in your inbox every day .
Sign up now !
Daily Beast Membership :
Beast Inside goes deeper on the stories that matter to you .
Learn more .

Vanessa Hudgens Apologises Over 'Insensitive And Not At All Appropriate' Coronavirus Comments .
2020-03-18 09:04:05 +00:00 .
See the latest stories on the coronavirus outbreak .
Former Disney star Vanessa Hudgens has issued an apology after facing a huge backlash over comments she made about coronavirus .
In a live Instagram video on Monday , the High School Musical actress was seen saying she thought it was “ bullshit ” that people could potentially be quarantined until July .
She added : “ I ’m sorry but , like , it ’s a virus .
I get it , like , I respect it , but at the same time I ’m like , even if everybody gets it , like , yeah , people are going to die , which is terrible , but , like , inevitable ?
I dunno , maybe I should n’t be doing this right now ... ”
Vanessa quickly faced heavy criticism on social media following her comments , initially responding to the controversy by claiming that what she ’d said had been “ taken out of context ” .
However , hours later , she responded with an apology , admitting she ’d been “ insensitive and not at all appropriate ” with her words .
“ Hey guys .
I ’m so sorry for the way I have offended anyone and everyone who has seen the clip from my Instagram live yesterday , ” Vanessa wrote .
“ I realise my words were insensitive and not at all appropriate for the situation our country and the world are in right now .
This has been a huge wake up call about the significance my words have , now more than ever . ”
She added : “ I ’m sending safe wishes to everyone to stay safe and healthy during this crazy time . ”
Ironically , hours before the Instagram live video that raised so many eyebrows , the actor had won praise over a Tik Tok video she created while social distancing at her home .
Vanessa and former High School Musical co - star Ashley Tisdale appear in the ...
Continue reading on HuffPost

Accused killer feared partner after fight .
2020-03-18 08:22:57 +00:00 .
A woman who fatally drove over her partner on private property north of Brisbane says she was trying to sneak away from their house , fearing he would punch her .
Elisabeth Mary Coman is accused of manslaughter over the death of Clive Crandley , 56 , in 2018 after the pair had a fight .
Coman did n't intend to run over Mr Crandley with her car , she told the Brisbane Supreme Court on Wednesday .
She says she saw him " in a flash of a second " rushing towards her as she tried to drive away from the house without him knowing .
He slipped backwards on the grass and she felt two bumps before she could brake , Coman said .
The accused killer says she immediately stopped the car , but found Mr Crandley unresponsive underneath .
Coman , 54 , says she was driving on grass to avoid the noisy gravel driveway as she tried to sneak away , fearing Mr Crandley would punch her face .
" If he knew that I was leaving it would cause more anger and then he would chase me and perhaps catch me , " she said .
Coman says Mr Crandley had become enraged during the fight , his face and neck turning red , his eyes bulging and veins on his head becoming visible .
She told the court she was frightened of his big fists , size , weight and power .
" I found him extremely intimidating physically , " she said .
" I felt he could easily kill me . "
Coman says she planned to hide in her car among gum trees on their 12 - acre property as she had done previously .
The fight was about Coman 's family visiting for a barbecue the following day and Mr Crandley not having made dinner that night , which he insisted on doing , Coman told the court .
She said the kitchen was Mr Crandley 's " domain " .
" He did n't like me going to the kitchen because he did n't want me to upset the pantry or make a mess , " she told the court .
Mr Crandley died after becoming trapped under the vehicle driven by Coman on the property at Wamuran , about 60 km north of Brisbane , on July 28 , 2018 .
Coman is expected to continue testifying on Thursday .
The trial is being heard before Justice Martin Burns alone after he granted the defence 's request on Monday for a no - jury trial .
Her lawyer Michael Copley QC said the availability of jurors could be affected by the outbreak of coronavirus .

Ramaphosa Shows His Mettle in Face of Coronavirus Scourge .
2020-03-18 04:43:44 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- South African President Cyril Ramaphosa has endured withering criticism for failing to act decisively enough to spur economic growth and tackle graft since taking office in February 2018 , inaction that ’s been widely attributed to his tenuous hold over the ruling party .
Now , in the face of the onslaught of the global coronavirus pandemic , the 67 - year - old Ramaphosa is finally showing the mettle he was renowned for during his tenure as a firebrand labor union leader and anti - apartheid activist in the 1980s and early 1990s .
He announced a string of drastic steps to combat the spread of the pandemic including travel bans on nationals from some of South Africa ’s biggest trading partners and closest allies , including China , the U.K. , the U.S. and Germany .
Other measures announced in a televised address on Sunday night could prove unpopular , such as closing of schools for a month and a ban all public gatherings of more than 100 people .
Ramaphosa briefed senior leaders of the ruling African National Congress on his action plan earlier Sunday , and encountered opposition from several who regarded them as too harsh , according to three people who attended the meeting and spoke on condition of anonymity .
The president prevailed after explaining the potentially devastating impact of a widespread virus outbreak in the country ’s overcrowded townships , where a high prevalence of HIV / Aids and tuberculosis may render residents especially vulnerable , they said .
The ANC caucus in parliament , which includes some of the president ’s biggest foes , welcomed his “ bold and decisive intervention , ” as did the country ’s main business lobby group and most opposition parties -- the latter are typically strident in their criticism of much of the government ’s actions .
South Africa has confirmed 62 coronavirus cases since March 5 , and moved swiftly to quarantine those infected and track down people who came into close contact with them .
To contact the reporters on this story : Paul Vecchiatto in Cape Town at pvecchiatto@bloomberg.net;Mike Cohen in Cape Town at mcohen21@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Paul Richardson at pmrichardson@bloomberg.net , ; Gordon Bell at gbell16@bloomberg.net , ; Benjamin Harvey at bharvey11@bloomberg.net , Hilton Shone
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Two charts show how the coronavirus outbreaks differ between the US and South Korea .
2020-03-18 02:26:17 +00:00 .
David Ryder / Getty Images South Korea and the US reported their first coronavirus cases on the same day : January 20 .
As of Tuesday , South Korea has reported 8,320 cases and the US has 6,420 .
Whereas the number of US cases reported each day has been rising since March 5 , the number of daily confirmed cases in South Korea peaked on February 29 and has been decreasing since .
Two charts show the difference between the course of the two countries ' epidemics so far .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
The US and South Korea reported their first coronavirus cases on the same day .
South Korea 's total number of cases is higher than the US ' — the former has more than 8,300 while the latter has at least 6,400 — but the trajectories of those cases day by day reveals two different realities .
In South Korea , which instituted widespread testing , the number of new cases reported each day seems to be lower than the one prior — a sign the country has wrangled its outbreak .
In the US , the number of new cases per day has increased steadily since March 5 .
Two charts of new confirmed cases over time
For the month following South Korea 's first confirmed case , the number of cases reported there remained low .
Then the country saw a spike in late February , after a 61 - year - old " super - spreader " infected many other members of a fringe religious group called the Shincheonji Church of Jesus .
Between February 20 and 29 , the number of new cases reported jumped each day , peaking February 29 with 909 new cases .
Since then , South Korea 's daily case counts have decreased .
On Monday , the country saw only 74 new cases reported .
REAL covid cases in south korea
More
Ruobing Su / Business Insider
The US ' epidemic curve started off looking similar to South Korea 's .
For the first month or so after the first confirmed case , the number of infected people remained low , with less than 15 cases .
Then , on February 28 — the day after the US ' first case of community spread — the number of cases started to rise each day , and that rise has n't stopped .
The US ' epidemic growth curve looks like a steep stair case , with each day bringing a new record number of new confirmed cases .
REAL US covid 19 cases in us
More
Ruobing Su / Business Insider
The US ' total number of confirmed cases is likely far lower than the reality because the country is still ramping up widespread testing .
According to the COVID Tracking Project — a testing - tracking resource from two journalists at the Atlantic and the founder of a medical data startup — only 47,000 tests have been run in the US so far .
( They note , however , that those figures may be incomplete due to different state policies on reporting negative tests . )
South Korea , by contrast , can test tens of thousands of people per day for COVID-19 .
As of Monday , the country had tested 274,504 people .
That allows them to quarantine infected people more immediately .
South Korea 's robust testing also likely means its confirmed case count is a ore accurate representation of the number of cases in the country than the US ' .
Read more :
One chart explains why Disneyland , Broadway , and sports arenas are all going dark to stop the coronavirus epidemic
Countries that are on lockdown because of coronavirus
Multiple experts say up to 70 % of Americans could be infected with the coronavirus and 1 million could die if no treatment is found — so people over 60 should ' stay home unless it 's critical '
What to know about the coronavirus outbreak in 17 charts and maps
Read the original article on Business Insider

Coronavirus Stock Market Sell-Off: Should You Buy Now? .
2020-03-18 02:06:07 +00:00 .
( 0:30 ) -
When Should You Buy Into The Stock Market ?
( 5:45 ) -
How To Invest While The Stock Market Falls ( 11:05 ) - Stocks To Watch When The Recovery Comes ( 20:40 ) - Episode Roundup : UTLA , HD , JILL , BBBY , JCP , V , MA , TWTR , MTCH , FB Welcome to Episode # 217 of the Zacks Market Edge Podcast .
Every week , host and Zacks stock strategist , Tracey Ryniec , will be joined by guests to discuss the hottest investing topics in stocks , bonds and ETFs and how it impacts your life .
This week , Tracey is going solo , due to the coronavirus and work - from - home issues , to discuss whether this is a buying opportunity in stocks .
It ’s been a wild three weeks on the US stock markets , with stocks now in a bear market retreat due to uncertainties surrounding the global coronavirus pandemic .
A lot of investors are asking :
Should they be buying stocks right now ?
Lots of Uncertainty
The honest answer is , no one knows what is going on right now in the US economy .
Fundamentals , such as earnings , have been thrown out the window .
Even individual companies are taking it day by day with some literally reporting earnings and giving guidance , only to withdraw that guidance just days later .
But that does n’t mean long - term investors ca n’t start nibbling at some stock deals , while being aware that this may not yet be the bottom .
Buy Strength , Not Weakness
Some companies already had business or financial problems going into the coronavirus outbreak .
JC Penney JCP was already in the midst of a turnaround after several years of falling sales .
How will consumer weakness impact any success at doing that ?
It was already closing stores , getting rid of inventory and trying new marketing techniques .
But that was all while the consumer was still on top of the world .
Meanwhile , other retailers like Ulta ULTA , have strong cash balances .
Ulta had $ 500 million in cash on hand as of the end of fiscal 2019 .
Superstar Stocks on Sale ?
Two superstar stocks of the last decade , Visa V and Mastercard MA , are now on sale .
Both lowered guidance a few weeks ago but impacts from the coronavirus have gotten more extensive since then .
Will we see further cuts even before their upcoming Q1 earnings reports ?
Social Media Companies Set to Shine
With so many people working from home and doing social distancing , people will still want to keep up with friends and family .
Connections will be important .
There ’s no better way to do that than via social media .
And it ’s not going to be shut down , like a restaurant or retailer may be , in the crisis .
Will companies like Twitter TWTR see a surge in members and usage ?
What else do you need to know about buying stocks right now ?
Tune into this week ’s podcast to find out .
[ In full disclosure , Tracey owns shares of ULTA in her personal portfolio . ]
5 Stocks Set to Double
Each was hand - picked by a Zacks expert as the # 1 favorite stock to gain +100 % or more in 2020 .
Each comes from a different sector and has unique qualities and catalysts that could fuel exceptional growth .
Most of the stocks in this report are flying under Wall Street radar , which provides a great opportunity to get in on the ground floor .
Today , See These 5 Potential Home Runs Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research ?
Today , you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days .
Click to get this free report Ulta Beauty Inc. ( ULTA ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report J. C. Penney Company , Inc. ( JCP ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report Mastercard Incorporated ( MA ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report Visa Inc. ( V ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report Twitter , Inc. ( TWTR ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here .
Zacks Investment Research

Orangetheory to LA Fitness: Fitness clubs nationwide close amid coronavirus pandemic .
2020-03-18 01:59:30 +00:00 .
The coronavirus pandemic has prompted the closure of fitness clubs across the nation , with popular spots — from Orangetheory , SoulCycle , LA Fitness , Gold 's Gym and Equinox — announcing closures Monday .
Some cities and states are instituting across - the - board closings of gyms and fitness centers as part of temporary shutdowns of restaurants , theaters and other places people gather .
Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti Sunday announced gyms and fitness centers in the city would be shut down until March 31 .
On Monday , the governors of New York , New Jersey and Connecticut announced gyms would close in those states that evening .
LA Fitness announced it will close its doors until April to help stop the spread of coronavirus .
" In order to do our part in the efforts to flatten the curve and impact of the COVID-19 virus , we have made the very difficult decision to close the operations of all our clubs beginning Monday , March 16 , until at least April 1 , 2020 , " a statement on the company 's website says .
" All memberships will be extended to cover the time the clubs are closed .
During this time , we will continue to have maintenance and janitorial crews on duty so that when we reopen , we will know we have done everything to ensure our clubs are ready for your return . "
The Boca Raton , Florida - based Orangetheory announced it was closing its franchise - owned high - intensity training locations nationwide at end of classes Monday , and asking independent owners to follow suit .
In a letter to members , CEO David Long and president David Carney said the closure " is not a decision we made lightly . "
" We have taken significant precautions across our brand to keep our members and employees safe while continuing to offer our workouts , " the letter said .
" However , as this situation continues to evolve rapidly , we believe that temporarily closing is the right thing to do .
" The letter stated a March 31 goal to re - open .
SoulCycle stationary - bike studios announced a closure around the world for its clubs on Monday .
" Never did we imagine a day where we ’d have to close the doors to 99 studios and countless riders who turn to SoulCycle for a safe space , " Interim CEO Sunder Reddy said in an Instagram announcement . "
During this critical time , keeping our riders , instructors , and studio teams safe is our absolute top priority . "
Reddy did not state a specified re - opening date .
" We ’ll get through this the same way we get through everything else : together . "
Gold 's Gym announced on Instagram that the company - owned gyms would close nationwide Monday at 8 p.m. through March 31 .
" At Gold ’s Gym we choose humanity with this decision , " the announcement stated .
" We ’re stronger together and as a global fitness community and appreciate your support at this time . "
In announcing the closure of Equinox Clubs to members on Monday , starting at 8 p.m. , chairman Harvey Spevak wrote , " The COVID-19 health crisis is presenting challenges that our unprecedented in our lifetime ...
Be safe , remain healthy and we look forward to welcoming you back into our clubs as quickly as possible . "
Life Time Clubs also announced the closure of all locations Monday .
" The length of this temporary closure is dependent upon governmental guidance , " said a letter to members from founder and CEO Bahram Akradi announcing the closure .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus closes fitness clubs : Orangetheory , LA Fitness ,
Gold 's Gym

Cruise Line Analyst Jumps Ship On Norwegian Cruise, Royal Caribbean Amid Coronavirus Cancellations .
2020-03-17 23:57:15 +00:00 .
Carnival Corp ( NYSE : CCL ) , Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd ( NYSE : RCL ) and Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd ( NYSE : NCLH ) have cancelled voyages for the next month or two to reduce their liabilities as the coronavirus pandemic grows in scope .
The service suspensions — and the long - term impact on consumer trust — could prove painful , according to BofA Securities .
The Royal Caribbean , Norwegian Cruise Line Ratings Andrew Didora downgraded Royal Caribbean from Neutral to Underperform and cut the price target from $ 117 to $ 25 .
The analyst downgraded Norwegian Cruise Line from Buy to Neutral and cut the price target from $ 61 to $ 18 .
BofA 's Royal Caribbean , Norwegian Cruise Takeaways Net yields will be twice as bad for the cruise lines as they were after Sept. 11 , when they fell 20 % , Didora said in the Tuesday downgrade note .
( See his track record here . )
“ With the booking curve for cruise 9 - 12 months on average and the outbreak coinciding with the important 1Q bookings period , we do not expect a quick snapback , and we forecast 2H20 net yields of -15 % , ” the analyst said .
By BofA 's assessment , demand could take several years to recover .
Net yields took three years to return to pre - Sept. 11 levels and about eight years to return to pre - Great Recession levels , he said .
“ We believe the net yield recovery could be even longer following this outbreak given its core baby boomer demographic has been most impacted , ” Didora said .
“ While repeat cruisers ( ~65 % of passengers ) could return to cruising once the outbreak is over , we see a long tail on regaining the trust of the new - to - cruise customer base . ”
Royal Caribbean is expected to shoulder a greater burden than its peers , and the analyst said the company should suspend its dividend to ensure liquidity .
“ Liquidity concerns remain the critical question , and we view NCLH as better positioned given no upcoming ship deliveries until 2022 and no dividend , ” he said predicting no liquidity issues for Norwegian Cruise Lines .
Across the industry , BofA expects a negative 2020 bottom line and a 50 % decline in earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortization .
Royal Caribbean , Norwegian Cruise Price Action Royal Caribbean shares were down 3.06 % at $ 29.02 at the time of publication Tuesday , while Norwegian Cruise shares were down 6.22 % at $ 10.26 .
Related Links :
The Outlook For Cruise Stocks As Governments Worldwide Issue Travel Warnings
Cruise Liner Shares Bounce Back Despite Continued Coronavirus Concerns
Latest Ratings for RCL
Date Firm Action From To Mar 2020 B of A Securities Downgrades Neutral Underperform
Mar 2020 SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey Maintains
Buy Feb 2020 Deutsche Bank Downgrades Buy Hold View More Analyst Ratings for RCL View the Latest Analyst Ratings
See more from Benzinga
© 2020 Benzinga.com .
Benzinga does not provide investment advice .
All rights reserved .

The earliest coronavirus cases on the Diamond Princess cruise ship likely spread via workers who prepared food, a new investigation found .
2020-03-17 23:25:21 +00:00 .
Kim Kyung - Hoon / Reuters
It took just six days for 20 crew members on the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Yokohama , Japan to contract the coronavirus .
A new investigation from Japan 's National Institute of Infectious Diseases attributes these cases to the virus ' initial spread among food workers before the ship was quarantined on February 3 .
The researchers found that the virus was likely transmitted first to crew members from passengers who started showing symptoms on January 22 and 23 .
By February 3 , the first crew member to test positive for the virus — a food - service worker — had developed a fever .
Around 20 crew members tested positive by February 9 .
Fifteen of them were workers who prepared food for the rest of the crew .
Most of them also lived on the ship 's third deck , where a group of food - service workers lived .
The crew mainly congregated in a shared dining area that was off - limits to passengers , the investigation found .
There , the workers may have passed the virus to one another through their respiratory droplets , such as saliva or mucus .
Even after the ship was quarantined on February 3 , some crew members continued to work to maintain essential operations .
The director of Japan 's Disease Control and Prevention Center , Norio Ohmagari , later told CNN that crew members should have been isolated just like passengers .
" We suspected some of the cruise staff may have already been infected , but ... they had to operate the cruise ship itself , they had to see the passengers , they had to deliver the meals , " Ohmagari added .
"
So that may have caused some close contact with the cruise - ship workers and also the passengers . "
By February 18 , crew members represented around 12 % of those infected on board .
More than 700 passengers and crew members ultimately tested positive for the virus .
Medical workers in protective suits talk together on the Diamond Princess on February 4 , 2020 .
More
@daxa_tw via AP
" The quarantine process failed , " Anthony Fauci , the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , told USA Today .
" I 'd like to sugarcoat it and try to be diplomatic about it , but it failed .
People were getting infected on that ship .
Something went awry . "
Around 3,700 people , including 2,600 passengers and 1,000 crew members , were quarantined on the ship for nearly a month .
The last crew members disembarked on Sunday .
Read more : 2 US grad students who were on the Diamond Princess cruise share harrowing details and photos from their quarantine and ' zombie movie ' evacuation
Many coronavirus patients have ' ground glass ' in their lung scans .
Here 's what that looks like .
What to know about the coronavirus outbreak in 17 charts and maps
Read the original article on Business Insider

A woman who has completed 24 marathons shared how to motivate yourself to go for a run when you really don't want to .
2020-03-17 22:08:21 +00:00 .
Virgin Sport
Running is one of the few types of exercise you can do outside of your home during the coronavirus pandemic , as Insider 's Anna Medaris Miller previously reported .
Everyone struggles to motivate themselves to go for a run sometimes — even Jessica Frey , the CEO of Virgin Sport who has successfully completed 24 marathons .
But Frey told Insider she has three main strategies for incentivizing herself .
One , for example , is telling herself she 'll only run for 10 minutes — and then she usually ends up going for longer .
Visit Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Running is , in theory , great .
It 's free , you do n't need any equipment , you do n't have to go anywhere first , and it 's simple .
It 's also one of the few types of exercise you can do outside of your home during the coronavirus pandemic , as Insider 's Anna Medaris Miller previously reported .
That said , it 's not always easy to lace up your sneakers and actually get yourself out the door .
And even running enthusiasts feel this sometimes too , like Jessica Frey , the CEO of Virgin Sport who has successfully completed 24 marathons , three ultra - marathons , and most recently accomplished Ironman Barcelona , a 2.4 - mile swim , 112 - mile bike ride , and a 26.2 - mile marathon , in 11 hours and 18 minutes .
Plus , she 's done it all by the age of 34 .
Despite all of Frey 's running achievements , she still has to work to keep her training motivation up , and she has three key pieces of advice regarding how to do so .
Frey recommends setting small goals .
More Jessica Frey 1 .
Tell yourself you only have to run for 10 minutes Trying to muster the strength to go and run for half an hour or longer takes a lot of mental effort .
But just 10 minutes ?
That feels a lot more achievable mentally .
" Start small , " she told Insider .
" Setting a big scary goal is n't motivating .
" Sometimes it 's saying , I 'm going to run for a mile , three times this week .
And by the time you put your clothes on and you 're out there for a mile , you 're probably going to run more than a mile . "
But even if you do n't , you 've run for 10 minutes , or a mile , and that 's a mile further than if you 'd stayed sitting on the couch .
2 .
Find addictive podcasts
Podcasts are a " big incentive strategy " for Frey — she finds one she loves , and then only listens to it while running .
" Another big incentive strategy for me are podcasts , " she said .
" I know if I 'm running , it 's the only time I have in the day to listen to a really good book or crime drama series .
" That really incentivizes me , when I really want to get to the next chapter in a suspenseful novel . "
3 .
Run your journeys
Frey is a big fan of running any journeys you 'd have to make on public transport , like your commute ( when not working from home ) .
" This is the hack that 's worked for me in the past because I really do n't like the tube , " she said .
" I 've just replaced running with something that I like less than running . "
So although there are days when she does n't feel like running , she wants to get on the London Underground even less .
" I 've been doing that a lot to incentivize myself , plus it 's free , you 've got your workout in , and it 's just so efficient . "
Read more :
I work long hours and struggle to find time to exercise .
Should I get up early to go to the gym or prioritize sleep if I want to lose weight ?
You can still go for a run outside while social distancing during the coronavirus outbreak
I really want to make exercise a regular part of my life , but ca n't seem to make myself actually do it .
How do I make the motivation last ?
Read the original article on Insider

New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo suspends student, medical debt during coronavirus crisis .
2020-03-17 20:11:44 +00:00 .
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo has temporarily suspended all medical and student debt owed to the state amid the coronavirus crisis .
The collection of medical and student debt will be halted for at least a 30 - day period , through April 15 , according to a statement released by Cuomo and New York Attorney General Letitia James on Tuesday .
MORE :
Coronavirus live updates : Italy death toll reaches 2,500 ; Cuomo preaches kindness in time of ' chaos ' " Countless New Yorkers have been impacted -- directly or indirectly -- by the spread of COVID-19 , forcing them to forgo income and business , " the statement read .
" In an effort to support these workers and families and ease their financial burdens , the OAG will halt the collection of medical and student debt owed to the State of New York and referred to the OAG for collection from March 16 , 2020 through April 15 , 2020 . "
PHOTO :
Few people are seen in Times Square in Manhattan , on March 16 , 2020 in New York City .
( Johannes Eisele / AFP via Getty Images )
More
The decision on whether to extend the suspension will be assessed during that time period .
In addition , New York will also be accepting applications for the suspension of all other types of debt owed to the state and referred for collection .
MORE : Government response updates : Trump proposes sending relief checks directly to Americans " As the financial impact of this emerging crisis grows , we are doing everything we can to support the thousands of New Yorkers that are suffering due to disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic , " Cuomo said .
" This new action to temporarily suspend the collection of debt owed to the state will help mitigate the adverse financial impact of the outbreak on individuals , families , communities and businesses in New York State , as we continue to do everything we can to slow the spread of the virus . "
Earlier on Tuesday , Cuomo urged New Yorkers to practice " kindness " in times of chaos .
" Be a little bit more loving , a little bit more compassionate , a little bit more comforting , a little bit more cooperative , " he said during a news conference .
" And we will get through this time . "
PHOTO : An MTA transit worker cleans a nearly empty Times Square - 42nd street subway station following the outbreak of the coronavirus , in New York City , March 16 , 2020 .
( Jeenah Moon / Reuters )
More Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said during a press conference at the White House Tuesday that that the administration is looking at sending checks directly to American households to ease the financial burden caused by the outbreak .
" What we heard from hardworking Americans , many companies are now shut down , whether bars or restaurants -- Americans need cash now and the president wants to get them cash now , " he said .
" I mean now in the next two weeks . "
MORE :
Coronavirus official explains why millennials are ' key ' to stopping the spread Washington state is also looking into a debt - relief program for residents , as state governments grapple with the virus ' economic fallout .
Washington 's program would include deferred bills , no - interest loans , debt and late - penalty forgiveness for companies and workers , and favorable credit terms for firms that encounter cash - flow programs during the crisis , according to a statement on the governor ’s website .
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo suspends student , medical debt during coronavirus crisis originally appeared on abcnews.go.com

2 Dow Stocks Surviving The Coronavirus Carnage .
2020-03-17 11:58:09 +00:00 .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average came 400 points of falling to the 20,000 mark Monday , and even after a minor rebound , the index is still down a massive 2,000 points , or more than 9 % .
Two Dow components were standing out amid the wreckage : Caterpillar Inc. ( NYSE : CAT ) and Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc ( NASDAQ : WBA ) .
Caterpillar Upgraded Caterpillar 's stock opened Monday morning at $ 89 and not only regained all of its losses , but traded as high as $ 105.85 .
By Monday afternoon , the stock was down 0.35 % at $ 99.29 .
The stock was supported by an upgrade from Stifel analysts who turned bullish .
Analyst Stanley Elliott upgraded Caterpillar from Neutral to Buy with a price target lowered from $ 140 to $ 137 .
Many of Caterpillar 's markets are either " stabilizing or have returned to growth " after a few years of poor performance , the analyst said , according to TheStreet .
Despite some near - term concerns , the company 's longer - term picture is backed by a commitment to grow dividends through 2023 and and to conduct share buybacks , the analyst said .
Bulk Buying At Walgreens Pharmacy retail chain
Walgreens appears to be a bet by investors that millions of consumers across key markets will continue bulk spending on items .
The ongoing spread of the coronavirus has some believing stores will either suffer from shortages or some form of mandatory quarantine will be enacted .
Walgreens shares were down 1.91 % at $ 47.07 at the time of publication .
Related Links : Coronavirus Quarantine Drives Marijuana And Alcohol Sales
How People Are Coping With Coronavirus From Around The World
Latest Ratings for CAT
Date Firm Action From To
Mar 2020 Stifel Upgrades Hold Buy Mar 2020 Baird Maintains
Outperform Mar 2020 Citigroup Maintains
Buy View More Analyst Ratings for CAT View the Latest Analyst Ratings
See more from Benzinga
© 2020 Benzinga.com .
Benzinga does not provide investment advice .
All rights reserved .

‘Who is going to advise him to drop out?’: Bernie may not be ready for quick exit .
2020-03-17 11:08:12 +00:00 .
“ What I know about Sen. Sanders ’ thought process and focus is , it ’s all about representing the movement and leading what he initially called the political revolution , ” said Kurt Ehrenberg , Sanders ’ longtime political strategist in New Hampshire until last year .
“ And not letting down the people who have been with him all along .
I think that ’s the most important consideration for him . ”
The fact that states are postponing their primaries to combat the coronavirus outbreak could provide Sanders more incentive to stay in the race .
Georgia , Louisiana and Kentucky , which had previously been scheduled to vote in March , April and May , respectively , have rescheduled their primaries .
Party officials in Puerto Rico are in the process of requesting a delay .
If Puerto Rico reschedules its March 29 primary , it will be more than two weeks until the next regularly scheduled primaries .
At the same time , the pandemic and looming possibility of a recession — or even a full - fledged depression — could make it more likely that Sanders stays in because the stakes are so high .
“ In these very uncertain times , we need a president who is going to put the interests of everyday people over every other consideration — and that ’s Bernie Sanders , ” said Jeff Weaver , Sanders ’ senior adviser .
“ How do we know that ?
Because that ’s been his consistent life ’s work . ”
If Sanders continues his bid after Tuesday , he will face an onslaught of pressure from establishment Democrats and even some progressives to drop out .
Many are wary of a long , divisive primary after 2016 , and eager to take on President Donald Trump with the benefit of a united party .
Jim Clyburn , whose endorsement helped fuel Biden ’s comeback victory in South Carolina , said on the day of the March 10 primaries that the Democratic National Committee should “ shut this primary down ” and cancel debates if the former vice president swept the races , which he went on to do .
Sanders ’ electoral prospects are bleak .
Momentum — and the delegate count — have shifted to Biden , who looks poised to win another string of contests decisively on Tuesday .
“ I think it could be much , much more constructive if he gets out earlier , ” said Mark Longabaugh , a senior adviser to Sanders during his 2016 campaign .
“
He ’s still going to have roughly 1,000 delegates going into the convention , and that ’s all the leverage that you need to influence the platform . ”

ALDI slashes opening hours to keep up with coronavirus demand .
2020-03-17 10:30:26 +00:00 .
Supermarket giant ALDI has cut back its regular trading hours in a move it hopes will ease strain on staff and help make sought - after products last longer on shelves .
The retailer made the announcement on Tuesday , saying the changes would come into force beginning Wednesday in response to panic buying hysteria that hit Australia following the coronavirus outbreak .
ALDI supermarkets across the country will now open at 9.30am , an hour and a half later than its usual opening at 8 am , and close at 7 pm , an hour earlier than normal .
In a statement , the company said it was operating at “ full steam ” and was under “ immense pressure ” to keep up with surging customer demand for essential items .
ALDI will change its hours beginning on Wednesday .
Source : Getty Images
More
It said the new hours would remain in place indefinitely “ unless other state and local trading restrictions ” applied .
The German retailer said it wanted the reviewed hours to allow employees more of a chance to “ take a break and look after themselves and their families ” amid the COVID-19 crisis .
This way , employees would also have more time to “ restock shelves with products and be ready for customers ” and employees in the Distribution Centres have more time to get the stock onto trucks and into stores .
More time would also be allowed for more thorough cleaning of the stores , the retailer ’s statement said .
ALDI encouraged customers to consider only buying what they and their family required , saying “ if we all do this , then we can make sure we have enough for everyone ” .
“ Australia ’s primary producers and manufacturers are world leading and they ’ve been a great partner as demand has skyrocketed in the last few weeks , ” the statement said .
“ We would ask everyone to be considerate and compassionate in the way they shop .
This means civil behaviour , courtesy to those less able and respect for the employees of retail outlets . ”
The move is designed to avoid scenes like this , and give employees a chance to take a break .
Source : Facebook
More
Both Coles and Woolworths have also taken measures in efforts to try and keep products on shelves for customers , including putting limits on the number of certain goods to be purchased at one time .
Coles has limited purchases of eggs , chilled pasta , frozen vegetables , mince , pasta , flour , dry rice , paper towels , paper tissues , hand sanitisers and frozen desserts to two units per person .
Woolworths has suspended Click and Collect ordering as well as home delivery services in Victoria temporarily , and is now opening an hour earlier for elderly and disabled customers to shop .
The retailer plans to close an hour early nationwide on Wednesday to replenish shelves of essential items , including ones it currently has limited the purchase of like hand sanitiser , tissues , rice , serviettes , wipes and toilet paper .
Additionally , the retailer will from Thursday be offering care packages to elderly and disabled customers which can be collected from customer service desks .
Do you have a story tip ?
Email :
newsroomau@yahoonews.com .
You can also follow us on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play .

WHO plans live streaming video on TikTok to fight coronavirus ‘infodemic’ .
2020-03-17 09:05:33 +00:00 .
The World Health Organisation will live stream a video on TikTok to share up - to - date information about the deadly coronavirus in its latest effort to combat what it has called an “ infodemic ” about the global pandemic .
The live broadcast , scheduled for 8 pm Tuesday Hong Kong time ( 12:00 noon GMT ) aims to “ share up - to - date information on what steps users can take at this time , as well as answer questions , ” according to a TikTok statement .
The move could help widen the influence of the WHO on the short video app , popular among youth and teens , after the health authority made its debut less than three weeks ago with a video providing tips on how to avoid the coronavirus .
The organisation now has nearly half a million followers on TikTok and has posted 11 short videos attracting a total of 3 million likes .
TikTok was the world 's most downloaded non - game app for the past two months , according to analytics firm Sensor Tower .
“ Beyond the library of information WHO offers users on our in - app landing page , it also serves as a valuable resource for our community by using its TikTok account to create videos that provide users critical and informed medical information and tips , ” the statement said .
COVID-19 , now present in at least 150 countries and regions , has affected more than 182,000 people and killed at least 7,100 , but the dissemination of fake news about the deadly virus has caused concern .
To combat this the WHO has partnered with internet giants worldwide , including Facebook , Twitter , China 's Weibo , Tencent , TikTok owner ByteDance and Chinese video platform Bilibili , to curb the misinformation .
In China , the Twitter - like Weibo site has been alerting users to fake news about the coronavirus .
Facebook has taken measures to remove content with false claims and conspiracy theories about COVID-19 .
Twitter said Monday it would increase the use of machine learning and automation to take a wide range of actions on potentially abusive and manipulative content .
Both platforms offer authorised non - profit groups advertising credit so they can run coronavirus education campaigns .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article WHO plans live streaming video on TikTok to fight coronavirus ‘ infodemic ’ first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Will Glastonbury be cancelled because of coronavirus? .
2020-03-17 07:52:28 +00:00 .
It ’s the musical highlight of the British summer , and widely regarded as one of the best festivals in the world — but will Glastonbury still go ahead amid all the coronavirus chaos ?
The Worthy Farm festival revealed the first big chunk of its humongous line - up last week , with Kendrick Lamar confirmed as the third and final headliner , alongside Taylor Swift and Paul McCartney .
And the rest of the bill was pretty spectacular , too — with FKA Twigs , Gilberto Gil , Charli XCX , Aitch , Kano , Nubya Garcia , Robyn and Thundercat just a few of the names set to make their way to Somerset .
However , in the face of all the uncertainty enveloping the music industry right now — many major gigs and festivals have been postponed in both the UK and beyond — fans are wondering whether Glastonbury can still feasibly run .
“ As things stand we are still working hard to deliver our 50th anniversary festival in June , ” said Glastonbury ’s co - organiser Emily Eavis when unveiling the line - up last week .
“ We are very proud of the bill that we have put together over the last year or so . ”
“ No one has a crystal ball to see exactly where we will all be 15 weeks from now , but we are keeping our fingers firmly crossed that it will be here at Worthy Farm for the greatest show on earth . ”
So , as far as the organisers are concerned , Glasto is still going to happen .
But is it likely ?
Professor Chris Whitty , England ’s chief medical officer , said on March 12 that he expects the UK to reach the peak of its coronavirus outbreak in about 10 to 14 weeks from that point .
That means the height of the outbreak should occur roughly between May 21 and June 18 , with the number of new cases then set to reduce .
Glastonbury is due to run from June 24 until June 28 .
It means the margins are still very tight — and even if the country has passed its peak by then , it still remains very uncertain as to whether a festival as massive as Glastonbury could be properly planned and run with all that ’s gone before it .
The answer , then , as to whether Glasto will happen is a very strong maybe .
As with much else in these times , we can only wait and see .

Asian refiner profits for transport fuels plunge on virus-fighting measures .
2020-03-17 06:56:58 +00:00 .
By Seng Li Peng and Koustav Samanta
SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) - Oil refiners ' profits for transportation fuels fell further this week , with the margin for gasoline turning negative for the first time in more than a year , according to Refinitiv data .
The margins plunged to new multi - year or multi - month lows this week after more countries globally imposed further travel restrictions and curbed domestic movements as part of measures to slow down spread of the coronavirus .
Airlines and airports are facing a huge shock as they battle a cash crunch resulting from the coronavirus , while gasoline demand in the United States , the world 's largest oil consumer , is plunging as state and local governments advise people to stay home and businesses shut .
In Asia , refiners are now losing 78 cents on every barrel of gasoline they produce from Brent crude , their widest loss in 13 months , Reuters data showed .
U.S. gasoline refining margins fell a whopping 95 % on Monday - briefly turning negative - to settle at 28 cents per barrel , their lowest since December 2008 .
Asian refining margins , or cracks , for jet fuel plunged to $ 4.71 per barrel over Dubai crude , the lowest on record for Refinitiv data going back to March 2009 .
They were at $ 7.70 on Friday .
" I do n't expect any recovery yet for jet fuel ( margins ) , and I 'm very much concerned ( to know ) if the current level is bottom yet ...
But jet fuel will be the last to recover when the economy recovers , " a Singapore - based jet fuel trader said .
" The world has to wait for every country to go through this virus peak .
Then demand will slowly come back , but my guess is probably not before late third quarter , " she said .
Cracks for aviation fuel have shed nearly 70 % since the beginning of this year as flight cancellations across regions led to unprecedented losses for airlines .
Asian refiners may have to curtail jet fuel output due to the weakening demand .
Jet fuel can not typically be stored for long periods as its quality would degrade , increasing the incentive for refiners to produce less of the fuel .
" When crude prices fell heavily early last week … it gave incentive to refineries to keep runs unchanged .
Eventually , with virus - related situation developing , it 's now the second time for global refineries to think of run cuts again , " a Seoul - based middle distillates trader said .
( Reporting by Seng Li Peng and Koustav Samanta ; Writing by Florence Tan ;
Editing by Christian Schmollinger and Tom Hogue )

Tesla's Model Y Is Out For Delivery .
2020-03-17 00:00:00 +00:00 .
Tesla Inc ( NASDAQ : TSLA ) has begun the much - awaited deliveries of its new Model Y electric crossover .
Several buyers posted on Twitter , Facebook and elsewhere late last week that Tesla notified them their Model Y was out for delivery .
The deliveries had n't been expected to be headed to buyers until later this year .
CEO Elon Musk had said Tesla was expecting to have the Model Y out by this summer , and analysts later began saying they were expecting deliveries by the end of March .
Successful early delivery will be seen as good news after the electric car maker has faced problems in the past from making its sometimes aggressive delivery timelines .
Broader Market Bringing TSLA Down
Also on Monday morning , Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi said , " Tesla stock remains high enough that it takes very aggressive assumptions on its future auto business to justify its valuation on a DCF basis . "
Tesla 's stock had neared $ 1,000 per share earlier this year .
" A baseline valuation of $ 300 - 500 for Tesla 's auto business may be more realistic , " Sacconaghi wrote in a note .
He maintained a Market Perform rating and $ 730 price target on Tesla .
The news did n't help Tesla on another day of punishment from coronavirus upheaval .
Tesla 's were hammered along with the rest of the market , down more than 14 % at publication time to $ 469 .
Related Links : Coronavirus – Another Severe Hit To The Automotive Industry Tesla Searches For New Gigafactory Sites In US Latest Ratings for
TSLA
Date Firm Action From To
Mar 2020 Morgan Stanley Maintains
Underweight Mar 2020 JMP Securities Upgrades Market Perform Market Outperform Feb 2020 Jefferies Downgrades Buy Hold View More Analyst Ratings for TSLA View the Latest Analyst Ratings
See more from Benzinga
© 2020 Benzinga.com .
Benzinga does not provide investment advice .
All rights reserved .

Ford's credit arm is helping coronavirus-stressed customers with payment assistance and offering to delay payments on new cars for 90 days .
2020-03-16 22:48:08 +00:00 .
Mark Blinch / Reuters Ford Credit announced that it would offer relief to customers affected the COVID-19 coronavirus outbreak .
Ford Credit is the automaker 's captive - lending arm , arranging financing for customers who buy or lease Ford vehicles from dealers .
Ford Credit encouraged stressed customers to contact the company to discuss payment delays .
Ford Credit also said that buyers of new vehicles could choose to delay the first payment for up to 90 days .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Ford Credit , the automaker 's captive - lending arm , announced on Monday that it would extend support to customers affected by the COVID-19 coronavirus outbreak .
" Ford is committed to lending a hand to the people who rely on us , " Mark LaNeve , Ford 's vice president of marketing , sales and service , said in a statement .
" The peace of mind of our Ford and Lincoln customers is our top priority as we work through the developments of this outbreak . "
Placing the decision in the context of prior efforts to help customers at times of local and national disasters , Ford directed customers to their " Account Manager profile either online at accountmanager.ford.com or through the FordPass app " maintained by the company .
Customers were also directed to " visit fordcreditsupport.com or call a special hotline – 1 - 800 - 723 - 4016 – to discuss options " for potentially delayed payments .
Ford Credit also said it would enable new buyers to delay their first payment for 90 days , if they choose that option .
" We want to make sure that anyone who needs assistance knows it 's available , " Ford Credit CEO Marion Harris said in a statement .
GM and Hyundai also offer assistance Hyundai Motor North America and Hyundai Capital also said last week in a statement that it would " make up to six months of payments for new owners who lose their jobs and have purchased or leased their vehicle between March 14 to April 30 , 2020 through Hyundai Capital . "
The carmaker added , " Additionally , for select new purchases through April 30 financed by Hyundai Capital , Hyundai is deferring payments for 90 days at the customer 's request . "
The program is called " Assurance Job Loss Protection " and was originally used during the financial crisis .
" Originally conceived in January 2009 ... the Hyundai Assurance Job Loss Protection program was the first of its kind for an automaker in the US , " the company noted .
" It reinforced Hyundai 's commitment to helping its customers by allowing them to return their vehicle if they lost their job .
Today , the program provides six months of payment relief . "
GM Financial offered assistance to customers , directing them to several resources at a dedicated coronavirus site .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Julian Assange's mother calls for his immediate release from prison over coronavirus fears .
2020-03-16 20:59:11 +00:00 .
The mother of imprisoned WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has appealed for his immediate release from Belmarsh Prison over fears he could catch coronavirus while behind bars .
Christine Assange 's plea came after a leading prison boss warned last week that the worsening Covid-19 epidemic will kill inmates throughout the UK , describing the conditions inside jails as a fertile breeding ground for the virus .
Coronavirus cases have surged throughout the UK in recent days , with 14 more deaths confirmed on Sunday .
More than 1,500 people nationwide have tested positive for the virus since the outbreak began , but officials say the true figure of people with the disease is likely to be far higher .
In a series of posts on social media , Ms Assange described her son as being " weak from chronic illness " and implored Britons and Americans to push politicians into action over his case .
Those with underlying health conditions are more at risk of contracting the virus .
" Bail him now to save his life from # COVID19 , " she wrote .
Assange , 48 , has been held in Belmarsh since last September over his alleged leaking of classified US military documents , including secret cables concerning conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq .
He previously spent several years inside the Ecuadorian embassy in London , where he was granted political asylum , before eventually being evicted in April 2019 and arrested by The Metropolitan Police .
The Australian national now faces possible extradition to the US to face trial over the 18 charges levelled against him by Washington , with a long - awaited hearing over his case beginning last month in London 's Woolwich Crown Court .
US prosecutors accuse Assange of working with military analyst Chelsea Manning to hack computer systems and leak vast amounts of classified State Department and Pentagon documents .
Assange is fighting the extradition request , with his lawyers arguing the charges amount to a politically motivated abuse of power .
He claims the case against him has been tainted by alleged spying while he was living in the Ecuadorian embassy , and argues he should not face charges as the WikiLeaks disclosures were part of a legitimate journalistic enterprise .
However the US government insists he is responsible for “ one of the largest compromises of classified information in the history of the United States ” .
The court battle over his possible extradition is scheduled to conclude later this year , in May.
Read more
Why is WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange facing extradition to the US ?

Virgin Voyages Delays the Maiden Voyage of the ‘Scarlet Lady’ Until August .
2020-03-16 20:44:24 +00:00 .
Click here to read the full article .
No matter how strong one ’s business acumen is , sometimes the time just is n’t right .
Take , for example , Richard Branson ’s Virgin Voyages .
Six months ago , April seemed like the perfect time to launch a heavily hyped cruise line .
But that ’s proven to be far from the case .
Late last week , Virgin Voyages announced it would delay the showcase tour and inaugural sailing season for the Scarlet Lady , Virgin ’s first - ever cruise ship , until July 15 due to the coronavirus outbreak .
The company has also announced that the ship ’s maiden voyage would be pushed back from April until August 7 .
More from Robb Report
In a message to the company ’s customers — or “ sailors , ” as they ’re referred to — Branson and Virgin Voyages CEO Tom McAlpin explained that the company is now fully focused on the global health crisis .
Fully aware that the unprecedented situation may make people rethink their upcoming cruise plans , the company is offering customers their choice of a full refund or credit for a future trip .
And those who take the credit will receive double value .
Customers who book a future trip before June 30 will also be eligible for $ 500 in onboard credit .
“ Despite what we are facing , travel will always be a way for us to connect with one another and open ourselves up to new ideas and ways of thinking , ” the company said in the release .
“ So while this is n’t the time for us to meet on the spectacular Scarlet Lady , it will be soon .
We ca n’t wait to see you on board . ”
Despite the delay , the cruise line stressed that the move is only being taken as a precaution .
The company said that it has not experienced any health issues aboard the Scarlet Lady and has simply elevated safety and hygiene protocols .
While the entire travel industry has been disrupted by the COVID-19 outbreak , cruise lines have been hit especially hard .
The CDC and US Department of State have now discouraged Americans from taking cruises after two ships belonging to Princess Cruises experienced onboard outbreaks .
Since then , numerous lines , including Norwegian Cruise Line and Royal Carribean , have suspended services indefinitely .
Best of Robb Report
Sign up for Robb Report 's Newsletter .
For the latest news , follow us on Facebook , Twitter , and Instagram .

Desolate store shelves, empty streets: These 17 eerie images depict coronavirus in America .
2020-03-16 16:24:02 +00:00 .
Cancellations , closures and empty grocery shelves are becoming all too common as the nation grapples with coronavirus , a pandemic that has changed what everyday life looks like in the United States .
The virus has impacted virtually every corner of society : children are home from school , employees are working remotely and many public attractions have closed , leaving Americans to " hunker down " at home , but not before stocking up on necessities .
It 's quite possible that things do n't return to " normal " any time soon , either , as the CDC on Sunday recommended against gatherings of 50 or more people in the U.S. for the next eight weeks .
From desolate grocery stores to non - existent rush hour traffic , here are 17 images that show how the coronavirus pandemic has affected modern - day life around the U.S.
It 's not just toilet paper : People line up to buy guns , ammo over coronavirus concerns
In Italy : Streets fill with song as millions remain on coronavirus lockdown
A food truck vendor pushes his cart down an empty street near Times Square in New York , on Sunday , March 15 , 2020 .
More
Customers at grocery chain HEB in Austin look for products among increasingly empty shelves as the city responds to concerns of the spread of coronavirus on March 13 .
More
A woman shops among empty shelves at a Hy - Vee food store on March 13 , in Overland Park , Kansas .
More
Shoppers wait in line in the rain to enter a Costco Wholesale store on March 14 in Glendale , California .
More
A Seattle Times headline reading " Silence in Seattle " eerily sits next to an empty street just outside the Times ' newsroom .
More
A normally packed parkway in Yonkers , New York , carries very light traffic on Monday at 7:25 a.m. ET .
More
Lighter than normal early morning traffic moves in and out of downtown Atlanta Monday .
More
Light traffic is seen in the afternoon on the 118 Ronald Reagan freeway , Sunday , in Simi Valley , California .
The highway is usually much busier on a Sunday afternoon .
More
Fifth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan is mostly clear of traffic on Sunday in New York City .
More
Even for a typically slow Sunday afternoon , Grand Central Terminal in New York City was quieter than usual on March 15 .
More
People walk in Union Station 's Main Hall in Washington , D.C. , on Monday .
More
A handful of people walk in Union Station in Washington , D.C. , on Monday .
More
People stand outside the gates of Disneyland Park on Saturday , the first day of the closure of Disneyland and Disney California Adventure theme parks .
More Walt Disney World in Orlando , Florida , closed down Sunday night in response to the pandemic .
More Mandy Barnett performs during the Grand Ole Opry broadcast on WSM Radio without a live audience at the iconic Grand Ole Opry House in Nashville , Tennessee , on Saturday .
More
Rev. Roger Grimmett delivers his message to an empty sanctuary and a camera crew for First United Methodist Church 's Sunday morning service in Springfield , Illinois .
More Follow USA TODAY 's Jay Cannon on Twitter : @JayTCannon
Coronavirus : Live updates ' We 're not being quarantined .
We 're being detained . '
Americans stuck in Cambodia amid pandemic
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus in US pictures : Low traffic , empty grocery store shelves

Georgia Delays March Democratic Primary to May Due to Virus .
2020-03-16 16:05:45 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Election officials in Georgia will postpone the Democratic primary scheduled for March 24 until May 19 due to worries about the coronavirus pandemic , Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger said Saturday .
“ Events are moving rapidly and my highest priority is protecting the health of our poll workers , their families , and the community at large , ” said Raffensperger , a Republican .
A person familiar with the decision said it was made after poll workers said they would stay away from work on primary day for fear of being exposed to the highly - infectious Covid-19 virus .
At least 66 people in Georgia have contracted the coronavirus and one has died .
“ Our priority is to protect the health and safety of all Georgians and to ensure that as many Georgians as possible have an opportunity to vote , ” said State Senator Nikema Williams , chairwoman of the Democratic Party of Georgia .
“ Continued in - person voting could compromise both goals . ”
Early voting in the Georgia primary started March 2 .
Williams said that votes already cast in person or by mail would count , but that people could still cast their presidential preference ballot on May 19 , in addition to voting in the U.S. House and Senate primaries already scheduled for that day .
Absentee Voting Georgia is looking at sending every registered voter over 65 -- considered by medical experts to be more likely to become seriously ill if they contract the novel coronavirus -- absentee ballot applications for the May primary , said Jordan Fuchs , deputy secretary of state .
David Worley , Democratic member of Georgia ’s State Election Board , said he was concerned the pandemic would still be a danger in May and that rather than risking in - person voting , the state should go to “ all mail - in ballots . ”
Georgia ’s decision comes after Louisiana said Friday it would move its April 4 contest to June 20 because of the coronavirus .
In addition , Wyoming has suspended the in - person part of its Democratic caucuses , also scheduled for April 4 .
Officials are urging people to vote by mail instead .
The coronavirus has also shifted the way candidates are conducting their campaigns , with both Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders replacing in - person rallies and appearances with virtual events .
Four states -- Arizona , Florida , Illinois and Ohio -- are scheduled to hold primaries on Tuesday .
The Georgia decision was reported earlier by the Atlanta Journal - Constitution .
( An earlier version corrected reference to voters being able to void their ballots . )
( Adds Biden , Sanders virtual events in ninth paragraph . )
To contact the reporters on this story : Anita Sharpe in Atlanta at asharpe6@bloomberg.net;Gregory Korte in Washington at gkorte@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : James Ludden at jludden@bloomberg.net , Ros Krasny , Max Berley
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Duterte Expands Philippine Lockdown to 60 Million People .
2020-03-16 14:31:54 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need .
Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte on Monday widened a month - long lockdown in the capital region to cover the main Luzon island to contain an outbreak of the new coronavirus .
An “ enhanced quarantine ” of the island with a population of at least 57 million people will be implemented until April 12 , Duterte said in a televised address .
Mainland Luzon will be on a strict home quarantine that the police and military will oversee , and workers must work from home to “ significantly ” limit movement , he said .
“ Everyone must stay at home , leaving their houses only to buy food , medicine and other basics necessary for survival in the coming days , ” Duterte said .
He also asked private companies to advance workers ’ pay .
The move to contain the virus , which has infected at least 140 people in the Philippines and killed a dozen , will come at a cost to an economy that draws more than 70 % of its output from the main island of Luzon which includes the capital region .
Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas will consider a deeper policy rate cut of 50 basis points at its March 19 meeting , Governor Benjamin Diokno said after the expanded quarantine was announced .
Fluid and uncertain
“ It ’s like slamming the breaks on the economy , ” said Nicky Franco , head of research at Abacus Securities Corp. in Manila .
Duterte ’s move will further damp economic activity and markets , he said , forecasting a further slump in the main stock index to as low as 4,500 .
Gross domestic product growth this quarter may slip to 5 % year - on - year and slow to 5.4 % for the entire 2020 , said Carlo Asuncion , an economist at Union Bank of the Philippines .
That forecast may have to be revised again “ because everything is very fluid and uncertain , ” Asuncion said .
The Philippine Stock Exchange index shed a further 7.9 % to 5,335.37 at close , before Duterte ’s latest announcement while the peso extended its decline against the dollar for the fourth straight session .
Philippine Markets Cut Trading Hours Amid Manila Lockdown
“ Growth will likely take a hit , that much is certain , ” said Howie Lee , economist at Oversea - Chinese Banking Corp. Ltd. in Singapore .
“ But BSP still has a lot of monetary policy room and the consolation is that the Philippines has a lower reliance on exports than other regional peers .
An aggressive monetary policy is expected this week to partially offset the effects from this quarantine of Luzon , ” Lee said .
( Updates Duterte ’s comments from second paragraph . )
--With assistance from Ditas Lopez , Clarissa Batino and Siegfrid Alegado .
To contact the reporters on this story : Andreo Calonzo in Manila at acalonzo1@bloomberg.net;Claire Jiao in Manila at cjiao5@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Cecilia Yap at cyap19@bloomberg.net , Clarissa Batino
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Fiat Chrysler halts European production as coronavirus hits demand .
2020-03-16 13:41:32 +00:00 .
MILAN — Fiat Chrysler Automobiles ( FCA ) is halting production for two weeks at most of its European plants to help protect staff against the coronavirus pandemic and adjust to a slump in demand , the Italian - American carmaker said on Monday .
Italy has been the European country worst hit by the crisis and the first to enforce a nationwide lockdown , which has now been replicated by Spain and , to a lesser extent , by France as the virus sweeps through the continent .
With all non essential services closed , including car dealers , and people forced home except for strict working needs , many forecast a heavy fall in car sales in March .
FCA — which according to analyst estimates produces around 25 % of its vehicles in Europe — said the suspensions through March 27 would allow it " to effectively respond to the interruption in market demand by ensuring the optimization of supply " .
Marco Opipari , an analyst at Fidentiis , said a few weeks of closures was not a big problem in an over - supplied European auto industry and lost production could be recovered later on .
" The real problem is on the demand side , people are not buying cars now , and sales volumes are expected to be very bad in March , with a real impact on automakers ' earnings , " he said .
FCA said in a statement that production for its FCA Italy and luxury Maserati units would stop for two weeks , extending a temporary closure period already planned for some Italian facilities .
Affected plants are Melfi , Pomigliano , Cassino , Mirafiori , Grugliasco and Modena in Italy , Kragujevac in Serbia and Tychy in Poland .
The FIOM union said FCA 's decision was " necessary " .
The carmaker said the freeze would help it to resume activity promptly once market conditions allow it .
" The group is working with its supply base and business partners to be ready to enable our manufacturing operations to deliver previously planned total levels of production despite the suspension when market demand returns , " it said .
FCA 's decision follows similar moves by other Italian car and auto part makers , as the coronavirus outbreak deals another blow to a European automotive industry already struggling with weak global demand and tough new pollution regulations .
Italy is still allowing manufactures to operate provided they comply with strict safety measures .
However , a growing number of companies are opting to suspend production .
Last week , luxury carmaker Ferrari said it was closing its two plants until March 27 , citing an emerging shortage of parts .
Premium brakes maker Brembo , whose clients include Maserati , said it would temporarily close its four Italian plants this week .
Related Video : Click here to See Video

JD.com said to have approached UBS, Bank of America to arrange Hong Kong secondary listing .
2020-03-16 11:18:26 +00:00 .
Nasdaq - listed e - commerce giant JD.com has reportedly approached Bank of America and UBS to arrange a secondary listing in Hong Kong , following a trend of US - listed Chinese tech companies seeking to move closer to home amid difficult conditions caused by the US - China tech war .
JD.com , China ’s second largest online retailer , has been holding talks with investment institutions including Bank of America and UBS to arrange its fundraising for the listing , the Hong Kong Economic Journal reported on Monday , without citing sources .
The two financial institutions also underwrote JD.com ’s 2014 initial public offering ( IPO ) in New York .
The Beijing - headquartered company has not submitted an application for its secondary listing to the Hong Kong stock exchange yet but is planning to do so as soon as the first half of 2020 , Hong Kong investment site Ryanben Capital also reported on Monday , citing “ informed sources ” .
A spokesman at JD.com said the company had no comment on market rumours .
“ The possible listing [ if true ] , can help JD.com extend its scale in the global financial market and minimise capital market uncertainties .
It could also allow real - time trading for its stocks to the greatest extent , ” said Chen Tao , a senior analyst at Beijing - based consultancy Analysys .
“ After all , Hong Kong is closer to mainland China [ than the US ] .
China is still JD.com ’s citadel and Southeast Asia is a growing market with big potential and strong competition , ” Chen said .
The success of Hangzhou - based Alibaba ’s US$ 12.9 billion listing in Hong Kong last year – the second - biggest globally after Saudi Aramco ’s IPO and the third - largest technology offering on record – could spur more Chinese firms to seek their own listings closer to home amid a more difficult business climate in the US due to the ongoing tech war , according to market watchers .
Alibaba is the parent company of the Post .
The Hong Kong bourse is said to be discussing secondary listings with Chinese technology companies including Ctrip.com and NetEase , and some of China ’s biggest new economy names which have previously raised capital in the US could easily pursue their own secondary listings in Hong Kong .
Internet giant Baidu is also reportedly weighing a secondary listing in Hong Kong and is said to have conducted an internal assessment of such a move .
JD.com reported earlier this month that its revenue in the fourth quarter had risen to 170.7 billion yuan , a 26.6 per cent year - on - year increase , thanks to a strong performance during November ’s Singles ’ Day shopping event and robust user growth .
Despite the impact of the coronavirus pandemic , JD.com foresees that its business will bounce back as its direct - to - consumer sales and in - house logistics model may prove more resilient to short - term disruptions , the company ’s chief financial officer Sidney Huang said at its annual result conference earlier this month .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article JD.com said to have approached UBS , Bank of America to arrange Hong Kong secondary listing first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Fiat Chrysler halts production in Europe as coronavirus hits demand .
2020-03-16 10:55:47 +00:00 .
By Giulio Piovaccari MILAN ( Reuters ) - Fiat Chrysler Automobiles ( FCA ) is halting production for two weeks at most of its European plants to help protect staff against the coronavirus pandemic and adjust to a slump in demand , the Italian - American carmaker said on Monday .
Italy has been the European country worst hit by the crisis and the first to enforce a nationwide lockdown , which has now been replicated by Spain and , to a lesser extent , by France as the virus sweeps through the continent .
With all non essential services closed , including car dealers , and people forced home except for strict working needs , many forecast a heavy fall in car sales in March .
FCA - which according to analyst estimates produces around 25 % of its vehicles in Europe - said the suspensions through March 27 would allow it " to effectively respond to the interruption in market demand by ensuring the optimization of supply " .
Marco Opipari , an analyst at Fidentiis , said a few weeks of closures was not a big problem in an over - supplied European auto industry and lost production could be recovered later on .
" The real problem is on the demand side , people are not buying cars now , and sales volumes are expected to be very bad in March , with a real impact on automakers ' earnings , " he said .
FCA said in a statement that production for its FCA Italy and luxury Maserati units would stop for two weeks , extending a temporary closure period already planned for some Italian facilities .
Affected plants are Melfi , Pomigliano , Cassino , Mirafiori , Grugliasco and Modena in Italy , Kragujevac in Serbia and Tychy in Poland .
The FIOM union said FCA 's decision was " necessary " .
The carmaker said the freeze would help it to resume activity promptly once market conditions allow it .
" The group is working with its supply base and business partners to be ready to enable our manufacturing operations to deliver previously planned total levels of production despite the suspension when market demand returns , " it said .
FCA 's decision follows similar moves by other Italian car and auto part makers , as the coronavirus outbreak deals another blow to a European automotive industry already struggling with weak global demand and tough new pollution regulations .
Italy is still allowing manufactures to operate provided they comply with strict safety measures .
However , a growing number of companies are opting to suspend production .
Last week , luxury carmaker Ferrari said it was closing its two plants until March 27 , citing an emerging shortage of parts .
Premium brakes maker Brembo , whose clients include Maserati , said it would temporarily close its four Italian plants this week .
( Reporting by Valentina Za ;
Editing by Mark Potter )

Goldman Sachs Predicts U.S. GDP to Shrink 5% in Second Quarter .
2020-03-16 01:03:46 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The U.S. economy will contract sharply in late March and April as consumers and businesses slash spending , with the short downturn likely be officially deemed as being a recession , according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
The world ’s largest economy will shrink 5 % in the second quarter after zero gross domestic product growth in the first three months of the year , the firm ’s economists wrote in a note Sunday .
They cut their full - year forecast to 0.4 % growth from 1.2 % on expectations for growth of 3 % and 4 % in the third and fourth quarters and strong gains in early 2021 .
“ The uncertainty around all of these numbers is much greater than normal , ” the Goldman economists wrote .
Consumers and businesses will continue to cut travel , entertainment , and restaurant spending , while supply chain disruptions and tightening in financial conditions will further dent growth , they said .
Goldman ’s projections followed U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin saying earlier Sunday that the coronavirus pandemic probably wo n’t tip the U.S. into recession , and came before the Federal Reserve cut rates to near zero .
Read more : Mnuchin Wants More Emergency Tools But Does n’t See Recession
The National Bureau of Economic Research ’s Business Cycle Dating Committee , a panel whose determinations of when U.S. expansions begin and end are accepted as official , would probably classify such a sharp contraction as a recession even though it involves only one quarter of contraction , the economists said .
They added that the group has previously said just a few months of contraction can meet its definition if it ’s deep enough .
Read more :
Tips for Spotting a U.S. Recession Before It Becomes Official
Meanwhile , growth is forecast to nearly halt in the second quarter and recession odds have jumped , Bloomberg ’s March 6 - 12 survey of economists shows .
Growth was seen slumping to a 0.1 % annualized pace in the April - June period , while the economy now faces a 45 % chance of a recession over the next 12 months -- the greatest odds since February 2009 , when the economy was still in the midst of the last recession .
To contact the reporter on this story : Jeff Kearns in Washington at jkearns3@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Scott Lanman at slanman@bloomberg.net , Alister Bull , James Mayger
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

New York City to close schools; bars, restaurants around U.S. ordered closed over coronavirus .
2020-03-16 00:00:45 +00:00 .
New York City announced Sunday that it will close public schools Monday and states and cities are ordering bars and restaurants to close to encourage social distancing to try to stem the outbreak of the coronavirus as U.S. cases climbed well past 3,000 .
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced Sunday evening that Westchester , Nassau , Suffolk and New York City schools will close this week .
Cuomo also said in a statement that New York City must put a plan in place to make sure that children who rely on school meals will still get fed and that parents , especially health care workers and first responders , will be provided child care .
In a news conference Sunday , Mayor Bill de Blasio said schools will close Monday and remain closed at least until April 20 .
The mayor said there is a chance schools could remain closed for the rest of the school year .
Full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak
The announcement came after widespread calls to close the schools and protests from " furious " teachers who thought it was irresponsible to keep schools open .
" It is time to take more dramatic measures , " the mayor said , adding that he knows " the full cost of shutting our schools . "
The decision came on a day when states and cities across the country took more dramatic measures to contain the coronavirus .
Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine announced Sunday that he has ordered all bars and restaurants in the state to shut down service beginning at 9 p.m. " How long will this order be in effect ?
We do n't , frankly , know , " DeWine told reporters Sunday .
" It will be in effect for as long as it needs to . "
DeWine said carryout and delivery services were not included in the order , and he said his administration is working to help small businesses that will inevitably suffer .
Ohio 's decision came as other states are putting similar protocols in place .
On Sunday , Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker ordered bars and restaurants in the state to close from Monday to March 30 .
On CNN on Sunday , Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said he plans to enact a similar policy .
Boston Mayor Marty Walsh ordered bars , restaurants and clubs to cut their capacities in half by removing tables and chairs to encourage social distancing , said beer gardens can not open until the crisis passes , and said lines should not form outside , according to NBC Boston .
He also loosened rules applying to takeout .
" We are basically allowing every single establishment that serves food in the city of Boston to serve takeout , " Walsh said .
Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser also announced a series of protocols that restaurants and bars must follow , including limiting service to tables of six peoples or fewer , ensuring that patrons are seated at least 6 feet apart at tables and booths and ordering nightclubs and multipurpose facilities to suspend operations .
New York City is not closing bars and restaurants , but it is cracking down on establishments that violate its earlier rule of keeping occupancy at half of capacity .
Authorities will enforce penalties on the half - capacity rule , de Blasio said .
The efforts by states and cities are meant to force more people to participate in social distancing , one of the best ways to slow the spread of a virus and minimize its effects on the most vulnerable populations .
" The best tool we have right now in this response is to give individuals breathing room from one another , " Jason Schwartz , an assistant professor of health policy at the Yale School of Public Health , previously told NBC News .
"
This is really critical . "

Hyundai and Genesis launch Job Loss Protection programs for new buyers .
2020-03-15 22:51:59 +00:00 .
See Full Image Gallery In 2009 , to help new owners through The Great Recession , Hyundai created what it called Hyundai Assurance and Assurance Plus programs .
Together , the allowed new buyers to return their cars within 12 months in case of an involuntary layoff , and made up to three car payments for new buyers in the same jobless boat .
With the novel coronavirus Covid-19 already creating similar effects to the financial crisis , Hyundai has reinstated its Assurance Job Loss Protection program , and brought Genesis in on it with Genesis Cares Job Loss Protection .
Hyundai will make up to six months of payments for anyone who buys or leases a new Hyundai from a Hyundai dealer , financed though Hyundai Capital , between March 14 and April 30 , 2020 if the owner or lessee loses their job any time this year .
The relief is available to any customer , regardless of employment history .
On top of that , anyone who buys a new Accent , Venue , Kona , Elantra , Elantra GT , Tucson , or Santa Fe before April 30 and finances through Hyundai Capital can ask to have their payments deferred for 90 days .
The Genesis Cares Job Loss Protection program provides the same benefit , covering anyone who takes home a new Genesis at a Genesis dealer , financed through Genesis Capital , from March 14 to April 30 .
Any involuntary termination through the end of this year can qualify for having up to six months of payments taken care of .
Those who elect to buy a G70 sedan and finance through Genesis Capital before April 30 , 2020 can request to have payments deferred for 90 days .
For more information on the programs , check out the Hyundai and Genesis web sites .
Related Video : Click here to See Video

Citigroup mandates New York metro employees to remote work .
2020-03-15 21:38:11 +00:00 .
Citigroup has imposed a mandatory work from home policy for employees based in downtown New York City , New Jersey , and Connecticut .
" Beginning tomorrow , Monday , March 16 , 2020 all New York City Metro ( including CT , NJ , and downstate NY ) staff who had previously been placed on weekly rotations are to work remotely until further notice , " according to an internal memo sent to staff on Sunday afternoon and reviewed by The Block .
Last week , several of the largest investment banks , including Citigroup , JPMorgan Chase , Goldman Sachs , had reportedly planned to have their staff work from home on a rotational schedule to combat the coronavirus outbreak .
It was said at the time that traders and bank branch employees would not participate in the rotation , as the work stations and internet connection required to conduct regulated trading activities are only available in offices .
The latest memo seems to echo this decision , as " there are no changes for site - dependent employees for the time being and all staff outside of the New York Metro area will continue with their scheduled rotations . "
In New York , the total reported cases of the coronavirus in the state rose from 325 to 729 on Sunday with three confirmed death .
Citi said on Friday that they found one employee at their headquarters in New York City who have been tested positive for the coronavirus .
At the time , the bank made work from home for optional for colleagues working on the same floor .

Toilet paper is selling out—but these best-selling bidets are on sale .
2020-03-15 20:43:00 +00:00 .
— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed ’s editors .
Purchases you make through our links may earn us a commission .
As coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) cases increase rapidly across the U.S.—resulting in school shutdowns , the sports world as we know it grinding to a halt , and so much more — many Americans are searching for ways to stay healthy and safe in the event that this global pandemic continues to spread .
Stocking up on everyday essentials like hand sanitizer , soap , and paper towels is one of the major ways that people are trying to stay prepared .
Unfortunately , that 's also led to wide - scale panic buying , especially when it comes to toilet paper , which is one of the hardest things to track down right now ( trust me , I 've been covering it all week , I know ) .
If you 're not one of the lucky folks who managed to have enough TP before the shortage hit , do n't worry .
Bidets are making a big splash right now and with good reason , as they 're an easy - to - use , hygienic alternative to toilet paper .
And here 's the best part :
Right now , you can get one on sale if you shop online at Tushy .
From now through Tuesday , March 17 , you can get 10 % off all Tushy bidets when you enter the promo code USABIDET at checkout .
This is a pretty big deal for a few reasons : For starters , bidets are selling out fast everywhere .
Not toilet - paper fast , but they 're still becoming a pretty hot commodity right now , similar to 99 % isopropyl alcohol / ethyl alcohol and aloe vera are for anyone trying to make their own hand sanitizer .
You ca n't even get a Tushy bidet on Amazon right now , because they 're sold out .
Seriously , that 's how popular they are .
While there are plenty of knock - off versions on Amazon right now , it 's the Tushy bidet that you really want to have .
Designed to fit with virtually any standard toilet , the nearly 5 - star rated Tushy bidet should only take 10 minutes to install ( and reviewers say it really is that simple ) and comes fully adjustable , so you can change the angle and water pressure accordingly .
When one of our testers tried it for himself , he claimed that it changed his life and made his bathroom experience " much more enjoyable . "
These bidets also come with a 12 - month warranty , which helps separate Tushy from other bidet makers out there now .
They 're all sold out on Amazon thanks to the toilet paper shortage , but they 're not on Tushy 's actual site , and you have more options to choose from , including the Tushy Classic and the Tushy Spa .
That 's also what makes this sale so good , because depending on which model you opt for , you could get one for its lowest price ever , and that 's during a literal toilet paper shortage .
Bidets are n't just a bathroom fixture for bougie folks anymore :
These butt - spritzing toilet attachments are a great addition to any home and right now , they 're an especially good option if you 're really stressing over toilet paper .
This sale sticks around until Tuesday , but we do n't know if supplies will sell out before then , so we definitely recommend you shop this sale sooner rather than later if you 've been wanting to give bidets a try .
The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered .
Follow Reviewed on Facebook , Twitter , and Instagram for the latest deals , reviews , and more .
Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time .
This article originally appeared on Reviewed.com :
Toilet paper 's selling out — but bidets are on sale at Tushy right now

Coronavirus: Ex-police officer named as 59-year-old who died after testing positive for virus .
2020-03-15 18:50:27 +00:00 .
A 59 - year - old man who died after testing positive for coronavirus has been named as a former police officer .
Nick Matthews , from Nailsea , Somerset , died in the early hours of Saturday at Bristol Royal Infirmary , his wife Mary wrote on Facebook .
She told the website Nailsea People that her husband had been taken into hospital with breathing difficulties on Thursday .
The 59 - year - old retired from his work as a police officer 10 years ago after suffering a heart attack .
Nailsea People reported that Matthews was diagnosed with pneumonia at the Bristol Royal Infirmary and was admitted to intensive care after showing other signs for coronavirus .
In a Facebook post on Saturday , his wife wrote : “ Today at 3 am I lost my life partner and soul mate but most of all my best friend .
“ Charlotte , Ben and I are beyond proud to have had such a big character in our lives .
As a family we are still currently in isolation until the coronavirus test results come back .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of Covid-19 cases in your local area
Explained : Symptoms , latest advice and how it compares to the flu
She went on : “ Someone will post again when we have more information .
In the meantime , I know some of you would like to visit , but please for you and your families safety , stay away until we get the all clear . ”
She later added that the test had come back positive and urged those who had been in contact with the family to self - isolate and seek advice .
Mary Matthews paid tribute to husband Nick via Facebook .
( Picture : Facebook )
More “ People who may have come into contact with either Nick or me during the past two weeks need to self - isolate and get advice , ” she said .
“ Although he tested positive , until a post - mortem examination , we ca n’t say that was cause of death at the moment .
I do n’t want to panic people , but I do want people to take extra precautions . ”
The couple had returned from a week ’s holiday in Fuerteventura on February 29 .
In a statement , University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust said : “ Sadly , we can confirm that a man who was being cared for at the Bristol Royal Infirmary , and had tested positive for Covid-19 , has died .
“ The patient who died was in his late - fifties and had underlying health conditions .
“ The family has been informed and our thoughts are with them at this difficult time .
We will not be commenting further and ask that everybody respects the family ’s privacy . ”
Nick Matthews was admitted to Bristol Royal Infirmary on Thursday with breathing difficulties .
( Picture : Matt Cardy / Getty Images )
More Councillor Don Davies , the leader of North Somerset Council , said the authority ’s “ heartfelt condolences ” were with the family and all that knew him .
“ I understand that the family have requested privacy at this difficult time and I ask that everyone respects their wishes , ” Cllr Davies said .
“ I am sure the news will be met with sadness in the wider community and it is important that everyone remains calm and follows the latest national advice on the steps needed to reduce the spread of infection . ”

Democratic debate: What time, where is it and what channel can I watch it on? .
2020-03-15 17:32:05 +00:00 .
Tonight 's Democratic debate will have a distinctly different feel to the 10 previous ones as the participants have been narrowed down to just two presidential hopefuls : Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders .
The former vice - president will go toe to toe with the Vermont senator after Elizabeth Warren , Pete Buttigieg and Amy Klobuchar all dropped out following Super Tuesday .
Hawaii congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard remains in the race but is not a contender and did not qualify for the latest debate .
Tonight 's debate begins at 8 pm EST ( midnight UK time ) and is expected to last two hours .
It is being hosted by CNN and Univision and is being filmed at CNN 's studio in DC .
It was originally scheduled to take place in Phoenix , Arizona , in front of an audience , but has been moved to Washington DC because of the coronavirus outbreak .
The moderators will be Jake Tapper , Dana Bash and Ilia Calderon , who has stepped up after Univision anchor Jorge Ramos stood down following contact with someone who had tested positive for coronavirus .
The showdown between Mr Biden and Mr Sanders can be seen on CNN , CNN En Espanol , CNN International , the CNN website and Univision .
The debate comes ahead of another round of crucial primaries scheduled for Tuesday :
Florida ( with 219 delegates ) , Illinois ( 155 ) , Ohio ( 136 ) and Arizona ( 67 ) .
At the time of writing , all were expected to go ahead despite the coronavirus outbreak .
Georgia and Louisiana have delayed their primaries -- Georgia from 24 March to 19 May , and Louisiana from 4 April to 20 June .
There is one more Democratic debate in the primary calendar which will take place in April , as long as both Mr Biden and Mr Sanders are still in the race .
A date and location for the 12th debate have not yet been finalised .
After a stunning series of wins on Super Tuesday and , the following week , Big Tuesday , Mr Biden has seized the mantle of frontrunner .
His rival insists there is still a route for him to win the nomination although his chances look increasingly slim .
Read more
Trump spreads unproven claim Democratic mayor was involved in ' orgy '
First US primary election postponed due to coronavirus
The Democrats ’ never - ending story needs a new twist
Andrew Yang endorses Joe Biden
Joe Biden defeats Bernie Sanders in key states , making him clear front

SpaceX Falcon 9 launch abruptly aborted .
2020-03-15 16:15:02 +00:00 .
The engines powering a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket 's first stage , a well - traveled booster attempting a record fifth flight in a mission to launch 60 Starlink internet satellites , roared to life and then immediately shut down Sunday in a dramatic - but - safe last - second launch abort .
SpaceX said on Twitter that the launch was scrubbed for the day , blaming the delay on a " standard auto - abort " after finding " out of family " data during a last - second engine power check .
The company said it would announce a new launch date after conferring with the Air Force , which supports all launches from Florida 's Space Coast .
Standing down today ; standard auto - abort triggered due to out of family data during engine power check .
Will announce next launch date opportunity once confirmed on the Range — SpaceX ( @SpaceX )
March 15 , 2020
While dramatic , the Falcon 9 is designed to safely shut down before liftoff if any critical systems malfunction .
Similar aborts occurred in at least four previous launch campaigns and in one case , SpaceX was able to recover and launch later the same day .
But Sunday 's flight had to launch on time because of the weight of the rocket 's 60 - satellite payload and the demands of the planned orbit .
A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket 's first stage engines roar to life and immediately shut down in a computer - commanded launch abort .
William Harwood / CBS News SpaceX test - fired the rocket 's nine first stage Merlin engines Friday in an exercise the California rocket builder carries out before every Falcon 9 launch to make sure the rocket 's propulsion system , flight computers and other critical components are operating normally .
There were no problems with the " hot fire " test , clearing the way for Sunday 's launch attempt .
Billowing exhaust clouds roll back over pad 39A at the Kennedy Space Center , obscuring the rocket from view .
Willliam Harwood / CBS News
The countdown appeared to go smoothly until engine startup at 9:22 a.m. EDT .
A SpaceX commentator called out the final moments of the countdown , saying " ... three , two , one , zero , ignition , liftoff " as billowing clouds of exhaust shot away from the base of the rocket .
But the booster did not visibly move and the commentator quickly said " disregard .
We have an abort . "
A few moments later , an engineer on the countdown audio loop said " launch abort on engine high power " as white exhaust vapor rolled back over launch pad 39A , briefly obscuring the rocket from view .
The goal of the mission , whenever it takes off , is to deploy a sixth batch of 60 Starlink internet relay satellites .
Three hundred Starlinks were launched during five previous missions as the company ramps up to begin limited commercial service across the northern U.S. and Canada later this year .
SpaceX has regulatory approval to launch some 12,000 Starlink satellites to provide uninterrupted , global broadband service .
Europe 's once - busy streets come to a halt amid coronavirus fears
Coronavirus outbreak sparks drive - thru testing in New York
Mixed - messages mar White House response to coronavirus

Nike, Apple close US stores as retail chains weigh coronavirus options .
2020-03-15 14:33:13 +00:00 .
The coronavirus outbreak has begun to affect big retail stores in the country , as two major companies announced this weekend they will close all of their U.S. storefronts for the rest of the month .
Nike announced Saturday it will shut down all of its stores in the U.S. , Canada , Western Europe , Australia and New Zealand starting Monday and will keep them closed until March 27 .
Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a statement the company is taking lessons from how it handled the outbreak in China , where the tech company shut down stores in February for a month , and will apply the same procedure for all stores outside China until March 27 .
" One of those lessons is that the most effective way to minimize risk of the virus ’ transmission is to reduce density and maximize social distance , " Cook said in a statement .
What to know about Coronavirus : Both Nike and Apple said customers can still purchase products and services on their respective websites during the two - week closures .
PHOTO :
A tourist wears a protective mask as she carries her suitcases past a closed Nike store at Las Ramblas , March 15 , 2020 , in Barcelona , Spain .
( David Ramos / Getty Images )
More
So far , these are the two major retailers to shut down their brick and mortar operations in the U.S. during the outbreak .
Several companies have announced plans to reduce their store hours and beef up their sanitizing efforts .
MORE : 10 ways life has changed since coronavirus struck
Walmart said starting Sunday , all of its stores would operate with reduced hours , from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. , until further notice .
PHOTO :
The facade of a closed downtown Brooklyn Apple store in viewed , March 14 , 2020 , in New York , after the tech giant announced it is closing all its stores outside of China for two weeks .
( Kathy Willens / AP )
More
" This will help ensure associates are able to stock the products our customers are looking for and to perform cleaning and sanitizing , " Dacona Smith , Walmart 's executive vice president and chief operating officer , said in a statement .
Macy 's , Target , Best Buy and Kohl 's said they will keep their stores open with normal business hours for the time being , but are conducting more cleaning in their locations .
Nike , Apple close US stores as retail chains weigh coronavirus options originally appeared on abcnews.go.com

Vic boosts surgery before virus peak .
2020-03-15 10:32:12 +00:00 .
More than 7000 Victorians will be fast - tracked for elective surgery to pre - empt the expected peak of coronavirus as the number of cases in the state jumped by eight overnight .
The cases , of six men and two women , aged from teenagers to their 60s , were almost all returning travellers .
It takes the number of Victorian cases to 57 , Victorian Chief Health Officer Brett Sutton said on Sunday .
All cases are recovering at home in isolation .
One is a student - a known contact of a teacher from Carey Baptist Grammar School .
The student was not at school while infectious .
The school will remain closed until the holidays , and as a precaution , 12 classmates will home - isolate .
It came as the state government announced a $ 100 million package to boost the health system 's capacity to prepare for the pandemic 's peak .
New hospital beds will be opened to manage coronavirus cases and more than 7000 Victorians will be fast - tracked for elective surgery .
More than $ 60 million will be made available for public and private hospitals to do extra surgeries , such as thyroid , prostate , hernia or gynaecological surgeries , so they can be done before the predicted peak .
Emergency surgeries will continue to be performed , but it 's likely procedures in less urgent cases will be delayed , the government says .
Premier Daniel Andrews said every sector of the economy will be affected .
" We should not underestimate the change we face , " he said .
Mr Andrews said the advice of health experts is not to close schools at this stage but he foreshadowed that significant disruption is likely .
Meanwhile , students at Geelong Grammar School 's four campuses will finish their first term early this week amid concerns over the spread of the coronavirus .
Jewish school Yeshivah - Beth Rivkah College also confirmed on Sunday it would extend its closure until March 23 , after those in contact with a teacher with coronavirus started showing symptoms of the infection .
Loreto Mandeville Hall at Toorak will also reportedly close on Monday as a parent had tested positive for the virus and a secondary student was awaiting results .
While only one confirmed case of the virus may have been acquired through community transmission , Dr Sutton said more cases are expected and he urged the public to take steps to minimise the risk of its spread .
For the virus to spread , extended close personal contact is most likely required .
Close personal contact means at least 15 minutes face - to - face or more than two hours in the same room .
Victoria 's Supreme Court and County Court have also taken the unprecedented step of suspending all new jury trials indefinitely amid the spread of the illness .
Major events meant to be held in Victoria have also been cancelled to help halt the spread of the illness , including this weekend 's Grand Prix and the Melbourne International Comedy Festival .
Museums , art galleries and the state library are also expected to close from Monday , while footy fans wo n't be able to attend the AFL season opener at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Thursday , with all games to be played without spectators for the foreseeable future .
The federal government has banned gatherings of more than 500 people starting from Monday .

Busy city gym issues coronavirus warning to members .
2020-03-15 03:48:07 +00:00 .
A Sydney gym has warned members they may be at risk of coronavirus after NSW Health confirmed a person infected attended one of its busiest central locations .
Fitness First announced on March 13 an individual who was at its George Street club on March 9 between the hours of 6 am and 11 am was confirmed as testing positive for coronavirus .
The club told Yahoo News Australia once NSW Health contacted the club , it “ immediately disseminated information direct from the Government Health Department to all George Street club members who would have visited the club between those hours ” .
The email sent identified members that had attended the club around the same time as potentially at risk of being in contact with the infected person .
“ You have been identified as a casual contact and we advise that you monitor your health until 24 March 2020 ( 14 days after exposure to the infectious person ) , ” the email read , along with a list of coronavirus symptoms to monitor .
Fitness First confirmed that a person who tested positive for COVID-19 visited the George Street location in Sydney .
Source : Google Maps
More
A Fitness First spokesperson told Yahoo News that the George Street location , which remains open , had undergone a thorough clean “ above and beyond the regular and thorough cleaning and sanitation implemented in clubs daily ” .
“ Since being made aware of the individual ’s visit , all equipment and surfaces they could have come into contact with were thoroughly disinfected with hospital grade products , in addition to surrounding areas and equipment , ” the spokesperson said .
“ This is in addition to the scaled - up cleaning efforts that have been ongoing across all Fitness First gyms for the past few weeks . ”
Gyms can be a high - risk area for the spread of germs because of the several high - touch areas of equipment .
The World Health Organisation cautioned COVID-19 is spread person - to - person and by touching objects which have been contaminated by an infected person .
Gyms include many high - touch areas .
Source : Google Maps
More
“ The disease can spread from person - to - person through small droplets from the nose or mouth which are spread when a person with COVID-19 coughs or exhales , ” WHO says .
“ These droplets land on objects and surfaces around the person .
Other people then catch COVID-19 by touching these objects or surfaces , then touching their eyes , nose or mouth .
“ People can also catch COVID-19 if they breathe in droplets from a person with COVID-19 who coughs out or exhales droplets . ”
As of Sunday , NSW currently has the highest number of COVID-19 in Australia , with 134 people confirmed to have contracted it .
On Sunday NSW Health reported there had been 22 new cases diagnosed in the 24 hours from 11 am March 14 .
Do you have a story tip ?
Email :
newsroomau@yahoonews.com .
You can also follow us on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play .

Airbnb is letting guests around the world cancel their reservations for a full refund and no cancellation fees, as the coronavirus pandemic continues to disrupt travel plans .
2020-03-15 01:13:45 +00:00 .
Kimberly White / Getty Images Airbnb is updating its cancellation policy to allow guests to cancel reservations anywhere in the world for a full refund in light of the coronavirus pandemic , the company announced Saturday .
Just a day before , the company had updated its cancellation policy to apply to bookings made in Mainland China , South Korea , Italy and the United States .
" First , Airbnb will allow guests around the world to cancel and get their money back .
We will not collect fees on these bookings , " Airbnb CEO Brian tweeted .
" We do n't want guests to feel like they have to travel because they can not get their money back . "
Airbnb bookings have taken a hit as the coronavirus pandemic has swept across the world , infecting more than 153,000 people .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Airbnb is updating its cancellation policy to allow guests to cancel reservations anywhere in the world for a full refund in light of the coronavirus pandemic , the company announced Saturday .
"
In response to the extraordinary events and global disruption to travel caused by COVID-19 , today we are announcing updated coverage under Airbnb 's Extenuating Circumstances policy , " an Airbnb statement said .
" This policy now applies to existing reservations for stays and Airbnb Experiences made on or before March 14 , 2020 , with check - in dates between March 14 , 2020 and April 14 , 2020 . "
Under the new policy , guests can claim a full refund without penalty — a policy implemented to avoid putting pressure on guests , Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky said .
" First , Airbnb will allow guests around the world to cancel and get their money back .
We will not collect fees on these bookings , " Chesky tweeted .
" We do n't want guests to feel like they have to travel because they can not get their money back . "
Until recently , the company resisted issuing refunds to its guests , largely leaving the decision up to its hosts .
The company 's refunds were only guaranteed to a select list of countries on a list .
Just a day before , the company had updated its cancellation policy to apply to bookings made in the United States as well as Mainland China , South Korea , and Italy .
But as the coronavirus pandemic has swept across the world , and infected more than 153,000 people , more countries have gone into lockdown .
In his tweet , Chesky commended the Airbnb hosts have already independently been giving guests refunds , and added that the company would be thinking of ways to support Airbnb hosts whose incomes may take a hit amid the flurry of reservation cancellations .
" Second , our hosts have acted like heroes during this time .
The majority of hosts have chosen to give their guests a partial or full refund at their cost , " Chesky said .
" Third , we know our hosts depend on money from Airbnb .
50 % depend on it to pay their rent / mortgage .
We are working on some bold ideas to support hosts , and we will have news very soon . "
Airbnb bookings have already taken a hit as a slew of cancelled events because of the coronavirus pandemic have prompted people to delay or cancel travel plans .
Airbnb 's decision to issue refunds could further hit the company 's revenue ahead of its IPO , especially if it also entails refunding its hosts .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Spain set for total lockdown as coronavirus state of emergency declared .
2020-03-14 21:51:21 +00:00 .
Spain is to go into nationwide lockdown in response to the coronavirus crisis .
The measures are set to come into force at 8 am local time ( 7 am UK time ) on Monday and last 15 days , the country 's prime minister Pedro Sanchez confirmed .
During the two - week quarantine , the country 's 47 million inhabitants will only be allowed to leave their homes to buy food , for work or for medical needs .
Mr Sanchez told reporters on Saturday that the covid-19 pandemic requires " extraordinary decisions . "
" We must all be united in fighting the outbreak " , he added .
Spain is the worst - hit country in Europe after Italy , which declared a nationwide lockdown on Monday .
Its infection count surged by 1,500 cases overnight on Friday to more than 5,700 – with a total of 3,000 in the capital Madrid .
Bars , restaurants , conference centres and all leisure and sports activities - including cinemas , theatres , swimming pools or football grounds - will be shut down .
All public transport will be curtailed , with airline , train , bus and boat operators told they need to cut their services by at least half .
Mr Sanchez acknowledged that the measures were drastic " and will have consequences " for the country .
But , he added : ​"It is important not to mistake the enemy , it is the virus , and we must all fight it together .
" Let 's cut the chain of panic transmission , stop the hoaxes , act responsibly . "
The president conceded that all Spaniards were facing a difficult few weeks , however , he went on : " The emergency will pass , we will return to the parks , to the terraces , and we will prepare for economic recovery and we will prepare for economic recovery and normality .
" But until then , we must all stand as one . "
Spanish politicians spent seven hours ironing out the details of the state of emergency on Saturday , which was announced the day before .
It is only the second to be declared in the country 's recent history , with the first being a 2010 air traffic controllers ' strike .
Meanwhile , France announced its own planned partial lockdown , with all " non - essential " public places shut for the foreseeable future .
Europe has become the epicentre of the pandemic , with countries across the continent ramping up efforts to prevent their health systems collapsing under the ever - growing load of cases .
Read more
Spain virus cases jump by 1,500 as officials prepare for ' emergency '

Bolsonaro Found Virus-Free After Aide’s Result, Trump Dinner .
2020-03-14 20:08:18 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro tested negative for coronavirus , giving his inner circle and allies some relief after a close aide was diagnosed with the illness .
He announced the results of his test on social media , along with a picture of himself making a rude gesture used by many to tell off their critics .
The Brazilian leader had been under medical observation since his Communications Secretary Fabio Wajngarten tested positive for the virus on Thursday .
Both officials were part of a delegation that met with U.S. President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence last weekend in Mar - a - Lago .
Other members of Trump ’s delegation tested negative for Covid-19 , including Defense Minister Fernando Azevedo and Institutional Security Minister Augusto Heleno .
First Lady Michele Bolsonaro is also virus free .
Results for Foreign Affairs Minister Ernesto Araujo will be known on Saturday .
Coronavirus has spread rapidly throughout Latin America since the region ’s first case was confirmed in Brazil on Feb. 26 .
Argentina has temporarily banned all international flights from virus hotspots around the world , while Peru has delayed the start of its school year and Colombia ordered travelers from China , Italy , Spain and France to self - quarantine .
Bolsonaro had minimized the coronavirus outbreak as recently as Tuesday while speaking at an event in front of roughly 300 American and Brazilian entrepreneurs in Miami .
“ We have a small crisis at the moment , ” he said at the time .
“ Coronavirus is a fantasy , it is n’t all that the media says it is . ”
Read more :
Face - Masked Bolsonaro Suggests Calling Off Protests Due to Virus
Since then , in light of the growing virus risk , Brazil ’s Congress suspended some visits to its building .
Government officials in Brazil ’s capital city , Brasilia , temporarily closed all schools and suspended all major events , including concerts and soccer games .
In a live broadcast on social media late Thursday , Bolsonaro cited coronavirus risks and suggested calling off or delaying this Sunday ’s anti - Congress protests that he had previously backed .
Wearing a face mask , he said the priority is avoiding an explosion in confirmed cases .
( Adds other members of Bolsonaro group to Mar - a - Lago testing negative in fourth paragraph . )
To contact the reporter on this story : Simone Iglesias in Brasília at spiglesias@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Walter Brandimarte at wbrandimarte@bloomberg.net , ; Juan Pablo Spinetto at jspinetto@bloomberg.net , Matthew Malinowski
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Tourists stranded as Morocco links to Europe cut over virus .
2020-03-14 19:02:58 +00:00 .
Thousands of tourists were stranded in Morocco on Saturday after the kingdom suddenly announced strict border restrictions in response to the coronavirus , leaving travellers stuck at borders , ports and airports .
" We are lost ! " said David , an Italian tourist waiting at the closed border with the Spanish enclave of Ceuta in northern Morocco .
Morocco suspended air , sea and land links with European countries and Algeria on Friday , as well as taking measures to confine citizens to prevent the spread of coronavirus .
Flights to and from Algeria , Spain , France , Germany , the Netherlands , Belgium , Portugal and Italy were suspended " until further notice " , while sea links for passengers and Morocco 's land borders with Ceuta and a second Spanish enclave , Melilla , were closed .
But France announced that Rabat had agreed to allow repatriation flights for French nationals .
" New flights are being organised to enable ( stranded French tourists ) to return to France , " President Emmanuel Macron tweeted Saturday .
The first flights back to France had already taken off that day , Foreign Minister Jean - Yves Le Drian said earlier .
The closure of the only land border between Africa and the European Union at Cueta and Melilla saw Spaniards rushing to leave on Thursday evening , as Moroccan day workers hastily returned in the opposite direction .
The land borders are busiest in summer and the border sees regular traffic throughout the year .
Now though a Moroccan police roadblock bars the road towards the border with Cueta .
- ' Who will pay ? ' -
David said he tried to go to Spain because links with Italy , a hotspot of the disease , are suspended .
After arriving in Morocco for a motorcycle tour with his partner earlier this month , the 33 - year - old Italian was stuck at a service station outside Cueta .
The border at Cueta , like that at Melilla , was reopened Friday only for Spaniards .
The Spanish embassy in Morocco tweeted Saturday that ferries were still operating between the enclaves and mainland Spain .
Its French counterpart also tweeted that " passage ( into Ceuta and Melilla ) is open to French ferry ticket holders with vehicles . "
But except for a few travellers , the normally busy border post near the Moroccan town of Fnideq was deserted .
At the service station , camper vans bearing various European license plates were parked waiting .
" We do n't know how long this will last , no one has told us anything , " said Rene , a 71 - year - old French man , speaking before Le Drian and Macrons ' announcements .
" The weather is good here , there 's surely fewer cases of coronavirus in Morocco than in France , " he said .
Moroccan authorities have reported 17 cases of COVID-19 , including one death .
France and Spain have together announced more than 210 COVID-19 deaths .
On the Spanish side at Cueta , stuck Moroccans were wondering why their country would not let them back in .
" If I need to get a hotel , who will pay ? " asked a man hoping to return home .
At Tangiers port some 30 kilometres to the west , containers and trucks were unloaded as usual but the passenger terminal was closed .
The busiest port in North Africa , the facility welcomed 568,000 foreign tourists in 2019 , while some 473,000 entered from Cueta and Melilla , according to official figures .
The travel restrictions are causing panic in the kingdom 's tourism sector , which accounts for 10 percent of GDP and is a key source of foreign revenues .
La police marocaine bloque la fronti � re avec l'enclave espagnole de Ceuta , le 13 mars 2020 �
Fnideq Dans l'enclave espagnole de Ceuta , pr � s de la fronti � re marocaine , le 13 mars 2020
Passengers wait for flights at the Tangiers airport in northern Morocco

Canada Suspends Parliament After Moving to Ratify New Nafta .
2020-03-14 09:11:15 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Canada ’s lawmakers are working to tie up loose ends in Ottawa after suspending the House of Commons on Friday , the latest step in the country ’s efforts to control the spread of the coronavirus .
With Prime Minister Justin Trudeau governing from home after his wife Sophie Gregoire Trudeau tested positive for Covid-19 , lawmakers voted unanimously to shutter the legislature until April 20 .
The motion included a provision that passed the new North American trade deal with the U.S. and Mexico in Canada ’s lower house .
The Senate met later Friday to approve the deal , the final legislative step before formal ratification , Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland told reporters in Ottawa .
Canada is the final holdout on approving the deal , known as CUSMA domestically , after a year and a half of tough negotiations with President Donald Trump ’s administration .
Canadian lawmakers previously voiced concerns over provisions in the new Nafta that could give the U.S. veto rights on future Canadian trade accords with other countries , as well as a new dairy export tariff and the treatment of aluminum versus steel .
The trade deal is key for Canada ’s economy and regulates at least $ 1 trillion worth of commerce in the North American market of more than half a billion consumers .
Finance Minister Bill Morneau , under pressure to deliver more spending amid the coronavirus crisis , has been calling bank economists to get advice on potential measures to support the nation ’s economy .
He had been expected to deliver the budget on March 30 , but that may be delayed , Rodriguez said .
The House of Commons is set to resume sitting on April 20 .
( Updates with details throughout )
To contact the reporter on this story : Kait Bolongaro in Ottawa at kbolongaro@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Theophilos Argitis at targitis@bloomberg.net , Stephen Wicary , Chris Fournier
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Chinese official blocks Republican lawmaker on Twitter after blasting coronavirus conspiracy theory .
2020-03-14 03:06:40 +00:00 .
Andrew Harnik / AP Republican Rep. Jim Banks of Indiana was blocked on Twitter by a senior Chinese official who claimed the coronavirus pandemic was " brought " by the US military into Wuhan , China .
Neither Banks nor Zhao previously tweeted to each other .
" He 's going out of his way to target politicians that are generally critical of China , " Banks said in a message to Insider .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Republican Rep. Jim Banks of Indiana was blocked on Twitter by a senior Chinese official who claimed the coronavirus pandemic was " brought " by the US military into Wuhan , China .
" I 've been blocked by [ Lijian Zhao ] , a [ Communist Party of China ] foreign minister in China 's Dept of ' Information ' who claims that the # Wuhan coronavirus originated in the US , " Banks said on Twitter .
" China 's ' information ' official tells blatant lies , gets questioned , then immediately reverts to censorship .
Too perfect , " he added .
On Thursday , Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao suggested without evidence that the US Army " brought the epidemic to Wuhan . "
" When did patient zero begin in US ?
How many people are infected ?
What are the names of the hospitals , " Zhao questioned on Twitter .
" Be transparent !
Make public your data !
US owe us an explanation , " Zhao added in his tweet .
Neither Banks nor Zhao previously tweeted to each other .
" I 've never interacted with Lijian Zhao on Twitter , " Banks said in a message to Insider .
" He 's going out of his way to target politicians that are generally critical of China . "
" The conspiracy theory he 's peddling is extremely hostile behavior by a high - level communist official , " he added .
"
Does President Xi condone this behavior ?
The entire episode underlines the need for the United States to distance ourselves from China and its economy as quickly as possible . "
China is one of the leading countries that trades the most with the US , along with Canada and Mexico .
Cui Tiankai , China 's ambassador to the US , was summoned to the US State Department on Friday , after Zhao 's posted his tweets .
President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping .
More Getty Images / Thomas Peter - Pool Officials from both countries levied allegations on the virus 's origins in recent weeks , as the World Health Organization upgraded its classification to a pandemic .
Republican Rep. Tom Cotton of Arkansas on Thursday said he was looking into holding China " accountable " for the coronavirus after saying earlier in February that he was not ruling out the possibility that it may have been developed in a Chinese " superlaboratory . "
Both Banks and Cotton have been longtime China hawks and have suggested Beijing had not been as forthcoming about the number of infections to downplay the seriousness of the epidemic .
Chinese officials have been accused of lowering the number of cases and tamping down on reports for months , before the virus 's spread was formally acknowledged by the government .
Chinese health authorities widely deduced that the coronavirus originated from a wildlife market in Wuhan , China , in December 2019 .
The officials , in addition to their US counterparts , have been sharing their data over their cases since , according to President Donald Trump .
" We all know where it came from , " Trump said in a press conference on Friday afternoon , referring to a phone conversation he had with Chinese President Xi Jinping in February .
Nearly 120,000 people have been infected so far and over 4,290 people have died , the majority of cases stemming from China .
The US has had over 1,629 cases and 41 deaths as of Friday afternoon , according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention .
Read the original article on Business Insider

The Henry Ford Shuts Down For Coronavirus Outbreak .
2020-03-13 21:50:29 +00:00 .
Sorry if you wanted to see all those wonderful cars .
If you thought heading to The Henry Ford for spring break would be a nice distraction from all the bad news these days , think again .
The museum has announced it is shut down completely , effective March 12 at 5 pm .
For now , the plan is to keep everything closed for one week , then re - evaluate the situation on March 18 .
The Henry Ford Shuts Down For Coronavirus Outbreak
More
Administrators explained in an official press release that as a national destination and a huge draw for travel into Michigan , it was in the public ’s best interest to shutter The Henry Ford .
Included in the cancellations is the popular Ford Rouge Factory Tour , which provides a glimpse into the automaker ’s modern manufacturing practices .
Visitors get a feel for how the current Ford F-150 is made , thanks to theater seats which vibrate , combined with gusts of air , robots , and 3D projection mapping .
The Henry Ford Shuts Down For Coronavirus Outbreak
More
This move also means all public programs scheduled at the museum through March 18 will be postponed or canceled .
If you ’ve already purchased tickets to the museum or an event , you ’ll have the option of either donating the money or receiving a refund .
Of course , the beautiful venue is also popular for private events , which are being reviewed on a case - by - case basis .
Under normal conditions , you could easily make a day of going to The Henry Ford , where quite a few classic cars are on display .
The complex sprawls over 250 acres of picturesque landscape , which includes Greenfield Village , where Ford Model
Ts tool around paved roads , and you can go for a fun ride .
The Henry Ford Shuts Down For Coronavirus Outbreak
More

The Wing Closes Co-Working Spaces to Slow Virus, WeWork Stays Open .
2020-03-13 21:18:10 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Co - working startup the Wing will close all locations starting Saturday , taking precautions following the global spread of the coronavirus .
The company , whose offerings focus on women , has 11 branches in the U.S. and London .
Offices will remain closed through at least March 31 , the startup said .
The announcement follows moves at many other companies asking employees to stay home .
Amazon.com Inc. , Facebook Inc. and Microsoft Corp. have all recommended staff work remotely .
WeWork , which has 739 locations and 662,000 members , is keeping most of its spaces open .
According to its website , WeWork has closed two in Wuhan , China .
The company also shut down and then reopened other locations in New York and Seattle after people there tested positive for the virus .
WeWork declined a request for comment .
“ We are monitoring the Coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) outbreak closely and adhering to guidance from the government as well as global and local health authorities regarding the proper prevention and management of this issue , ” WeWork said on its website .
WeWork has an optional work - from - home policy in place for employees and has reduced staffing at its locations .
Other co - working companies Knotel and Convene have also taken steps to mitigate the virus spread .
A spokesperson for Convene said that the company was closing more than half of its 32 locations , including one at 530 Fifth Avenue in New York where a member tested positive for the virus .
Knotel , which has 271 locations , said it ’s encouraging employees to take “ additional health precautions , ” and offering added cleanings of work spaces to customers .
The Wing members will not be charged in their upcoming billing cycles , a spokeswoman said .
The Wing has about 150 full - time staff at its headquarters , and roughly 300 hourly employees .
“ Taking care of our staff in this uncertain time is imperative , which is why we ’ve committed to paying them for scheduled shifts in addition to offering paid sick leave , ” said Wing co - founder Lauren Kassan .
“ We intend to monitor the situation carefully and continue to do our part in helping stop the spread of this virus . ”
WeWork had been an investor in the Wing until it sold off its stake in the smaller startup earlier this year .
WeWork 's junk bonds due in 2025 have fallen steeply in recent weeks to 71.5 cents on the dollar , according to TRACE data , their lowest level since November 2019 .
( Updates with context starting in the third paragraph .
)
--With assistance from Ellen Huet .
To contact the authors of this story : Sarah McBride in San Francisco at smcbride24@bloomberg.netGillian Tan in New York at gtan129@bloomberg.net
To contact the editor responsible for this story : Anne VanderMey at avandermey@bloomberg.net , Rebecca Greenfield
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Last Disney cruise set to depart Orlando before company suspends all sailings Saturday .
2020-03-13 19:37:55 +00:00 .
ORLANDO , Florida – Port Canaveral , the cruise terminal serving Orlando and the world 's second busiest after PortMiami , will temporarily lose one of its major cruise lines after the coronavirus pandemic prompted Disney Cruise Lines to announce that it will suspend all sailings beginning Saturday and effective through the end of March .
Eight cruises will be canceled as a result .
But one last Disney cruise will launch from Cruise Terminal 8 before the cruise line halts operations :
According to the cruise ship - tracking site CruiseMapper.com , the Disney Dream is set to depart Friday for a 3 - day sailing to Castaway Cay , the company 's private island in the Bahamas .
The Disney Fantasy , which is also based out of Port Canaveral , is due back on Saturday morning , but its next cruise , scheduled to leave Saturday afternoon , will not sail .
Disney Cruise Line said it was suspending service " in an abundance of caution and in the best interest of our guests and employees . "
Coronavirus cruise cancellations : Princess Cruises , Disney Cruise Line suspend operations
The Disney Dream is shown docked at Port Canaveral 's Cruise Terminal 8 .
More
" While we know this decision may be disappointing , the health and well - being of our guests is of the greatest importance , " the cruise line said in its statement .
" We are equally committed to the well - being of our incredible crew members who live and work aboard our ships and on Castaway Cay , " Disney Cruise Line 's private island in the Bahamas .
Disney said it would continue to pay its to crew members and shoreside employees during the suspended operations .
Disney Dream will lose at least five sailings out of Port Canaveral : March 16 - 20 , March 20 - 23 , March 23 - 27 , March 27 - 30 and March 30 to April 3 .
Disney Fantasy will lose at least three sailings out of Port Canaveral : March 14 - 21 , March 21 - 29 and March 29 to April 4 .
Disney Cruise Line said it will offer passengers affected by this decision a future cruise credit or a full refund , the details of which will be provided directly to them .
Disney Dream was one of four cruise ships preparing to sail out of Port Canaveral on Friday , along with the Carnival Liberty , the Norwegian Sun and the Royal Caribbean Mariner of the Seas .
As of Friday , Carnival , Norwegian and Royal Caribbean had not announced plans to halt sailings of their cruise ships .
However , the German line AIDA , which is owned by Carnival , said it will cancel all sailings through the end of March .
One of its ships , AIDAvita , was barred from making a port call to Vietnam in February , as the virus began to ravage southeast Asia .
More :
Coronavirus : Some Space Coast hotels take ' big blow ' from reduced travel
Our journalists are working hard to report on the coronavirus and its effects on the Space Coast , and bring you the stories free of charge as a service to the community .
If these local stories are important to you , support us by becoming a subscriber .
Right now you can try a digital subscription for $ 3 for 3 months .
Dave Berman is government editor at FLORIDA TODAY .
Contact Berman at 321 - 242 - 3649 or dberman@floridatoday.com .
Twitter : @bydaveberman
Rick Neale is the South Brevard Watchdog Reporter at FLORIDA TODAY .
Contact Neale at 321 - 242 - 3638 or rneale@floridatoday.com .
Twitter : @RickNeale1 .
Contributing : Jayme Deerwester , USA TODAY
This article originally appeared on Florida Today :
Coronavirus : Last Disney cruise set to sail before
operations cease

London Marathon postponed due to coronavirus .
2020-03-13 17:59:31 +00:00 .
The London Marathon has been postponed until Sunday 4 October 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic .
The marathon was due to take place on Saturday 26 April .
It is the first time the race has been postponed since its launch , in 1981 .
“ The world is in an unprecedented situation grappling with a global pandemic of COVID-19 and public health is everyone ’s priority , ” event director Hugh Brasher said in a statement .
“ We know how disappointing this news will be for so many – the runners who have trained for many months , the thousands of charities for which they are raising funds and the millions who watch the race every year .
“ We know that there will be many , many questions from runners , charities and others and we ask you to please bear with us as we work through the detailed planning process to deliver the 2020 Virgin Money London Marathon on its new scheduled date .
“ We will email all runners and charities today and then update them via email by the end of next week at the latest .
We will also post regular updates on our website and social media channels . ”
Organisers have said that every runner with a marathon place will be eligible for the new October date , although refunds can also be claimed .
The London marathon is the latest sporting event to be cancelled due to the global coronavirus pandemic .
On Friday , all elite football in Britain – including the Premier League , EFL , FA Women ’s Super League and Scottish Premiership – was suspended until at least 3 April .
The England cricket ’s team ’s Test series in Sri Lanka was earlier called off .
Next month ’s Masters in Augusta has also been cancelled while the PGA Tour has cancelled all events until 16 April .

A cruise expert describes the biggest mistake Princess Cruises made in handling the coronavirus outbreak that infected over 700 people on the Diamond Princess .
2020-03-13 17:07:01 +00:00 .
Kim Kyung - Hoon / Reuters
The captain on the Diamond Princess was n't assertive enough in taking steps to prevent the coronavirus from spreading on the ship , according to cruise - industry expert Ross Klein .
" He had the ability to segregate crew members who may have been ill from those who were n't ill or to find ways of ensuring that crew members who potentially were ill were not eating at the same crew mess as the people who were n't ill , " Klein said of the ship 's captain .
But Princess did make a smart decision by canceling all cruises through May 10 , Klein said .
Princess Cruises did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Before canceling all of its cruises through May 10 , Princess Cruises received criticism for its handling of a coronavirus outbreak on its Diamond Princess ship that eventually infected over 700 passengers and crew members .
The biggest mistake made by the cruise line came from those running the ship , like its captain , said Ross Klein , a professor at Memorial University of Newfoundland who studies the cruise industry and runs a website documenting illness outbreaks on cruise ships .
The ship 's captain was n't proactive enough in taking steps to protect passengers and crew members , Klein said , leaning instead on the Japanese government , which imposed a quarantine over three days after learning that a prior passenger on the ship had tested positive for the coronavirus .
" He had the ability to segregate crew members who may have been ill from those who were n't ill or to find ways of ensuring that crew members who potentially were ill were not eating at the same crew mess as the people who were n't ill , " Klein said of the ship 's captain .
Princess Cruises did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
Being more decisive may not have stopped the coronavirus from spreading on the ship , but it could have at least slowed it down , Klein said .
While Princess Cruises , which is owned by Carnival Corp. , mishandled the Diamond Princess , Klein said the cruise line did make a smart decision by canceling all of its cruises until May 11 .
" I think that was a very wise move , " he said .
" I think it 's unfortunate that it took them this long and that the remainder of the companies within Carnival and others have n't seen the value in taking that kind of an approach . "
Ultimately , Princess Cruises is n't likely to suffer long - term reputational damage from its handling of the coronavirus , Klein said , pointing to Holland America Line , which recovered after multiple norovirus outbreaks in 2002 .
" Within a year , people pretty much forgot , " he said .
Do you work for Princess Cruises or another Carnival Corp. cruise line ?
Do you have an opinion about how the company has handled the coronavirus ?
Contact this reporter at mmatousek@businessinsider.com .
You can also reach out on Signal at 646 - 768 - 4712 or email this reporter 's encrypted address at mmatousek@protonmail.com .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Canada Ups Ante With Central Bank Cash, Hints at Fiscal Moves .
2020-03-13 12:47:41 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Canadian policy makers are stepping up efforts to bolster confidence in the nation ’s economy , including the central bank sending cash into funding markets and suggestions from Justin Trudeau ’s government that fiscal stimulus could soon follow .
The Bank of Canada said Thursday after the closing bell that it plans to inject billions of dollars into markets to shore up stability , just eight days after it slashed interest rates by half a percentage point .
Two hours later , Finance Minister Bill Morneau held an impromptu news conference to underscore the government ’s urgency in dealing with the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic .
“ What we ’re going to do is to use our fiscal strength to make sure our economy stays strong in the face of this uncertainty , ” Morneau said , without providing specifics .
The additional steps followed the biggest plunge in Canadian stocks prices in eight decades on Thursday as concern mounted that a global recession is at hand .
Several of Canada ’s largest banks are predicting a technical recession this year as the country takes a double hit from falling oil prices and virus - related stoppages .
In a report released Friday , Royal Bank of Canada predicted Canada will undergo a contraction in the second and third quarters of 2020 , before rebounding in the fourth quarter .
Tentative Steps While the prime minister himself is in isolation after his wife tested positive for Covid-19 , Trudeau ’s government has so far taken a cautious approach .
It has promised just C$ 1.1 billion ( $ 790 million ) in additional funding to respond to the virus , but it ’s hinting it may change tack .
On Thursday , Morneau confirmed the government has been forced to redo its revenue forecasts for the 2020 budget he plans to release on March 20 .
He also said he ’s speaking with global counterparts , including Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin , and the government was busy all day discussing its response to the deteriorating conditions .
“ The prime minister today spent significant time with myself and with the broader team to think about how we make sure to get the economic decisions right , ” Morneau said .
Trudeau spoke with U.S. President Donald Trump and U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson , according to the prime minister ’s office .
Also Thursday , the U.S. Federal Reserve took aggressive steps to ease what it called “ temporary disruptions , ” promising a cumulative $ 5 trillion in liquidity and widening its purchases of U.S. government bonds .
The Bank of Canada cut its benchmark interest rate to 1.25 % on March 4 .
Since then , oil prices have plunged , adding another shock to an already faltering economy and raising the likelihood of more rate cuts .
Swaps trading suggests investors are expecting another 75 basis points in cuts by mid April .
On Thursday , the bank said it will “ proactively ” support interbank funding by increasing the frequency with which it purchases Canadian government bonds to weekly , from every two weeks , and widening the terms to include six - month and 12 - month operations .
It will also expand the scope of a bond buyback program .
( Updates with bank forecasts in fourth paragraph )
--With assistance from Divya Balji , Michael Bellusci and Erik Hertzberg .
To contact the reporter on this story : Shelly Hagan in ottawa at shagan9@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Theophilos Argitis at targitis@bloomberg.net , Stephen Wicary , Chris Fournier
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Silver Daily Forecast – Silver Slides to 8-Month Low as U.S Imposes Travel Restrictions .
2020-03-13 05:59:53 +00:00 .
Silver has recorded considerable losses in the Thursday session .
Currently , silver is trading at $ 15.83 , down $ 0.93 or 5.56 % on the day .
Silver Falls Below $ 16
After U.S. Travel Ban Silver managed to remain steady for two days , but has resumed its losing ways on Thursday .
The metal has fallen over 5 percent , after U.S. President Trump announced a ban on foreign travelers from Europe , with the exception of the UK .
The ban is in effect for 30 days , and is in response to the coronavirus outbreak , which has now killed 33 people in the U.S.
The move has sent global stock markets sharply lower on Thursday , and silver prices have also lost ground .
Earlier in the day , silver fell to a daily low of $ 15.75 , its lowest level since July 2019 .
Silver had already lost ground before Trump ’s travel ban , after the World Health organization called the coronavirus a pandemic , which means a disease that is spreading in multiple countries around the world at the same time .
Meanwhile , Italy has toughened its measures to combat the virus , announcing the closure of all shops except food shops and pharmacies .
The country has already imposed severe travel restrictions on the entire population , in a desperate effort to contain the virus .
Silver Technical Analysis Silver has declined on Thursday and is testing support at the 15.60 line .
Below , we find support at the round number of 15.00 , followed by a support line at 14.20 .
On the upside , the line of 16.30 has some breathing room in resistance .
Above , we have resistance at 1.690 , followed by the 50 - day EMA line at situated at 17.08 .
This article was originally posted on FX Empire
More From FXEMPIRE :

Apple reopens all its stores in China, with shorter hours, amid signs coronavirus has peaked in country .
2020-03-13 05:52:04 +00:00 .
Apple has reopened all its stores in mainland China after weeks of closures amid the coronavirus outbreak , as the company ’s third - largest market gradually restarts business amid signs that the pandemic has peaked in the country .
All 42 Apple stores across mainland China will open starting from Friday , according to the company ’s website .
However , most of the stores will operate on limited trading hours , with some stores in Beijing and neighbouring Tianjin closing as early as 7 pm .
An Apple spokeswoman confirmed the reopening .
In early February , Apple announced the closure of all its stores in China amid the outbreak of the deadly new coronavirus , before gradually opening with shorter trading hours .
The first batch of five stores in Beijing opened from February 13 , and required customers to wear facial masks and have their body temperature checked before entering the stores .
China is the US tech giant ’s third - biggest market and the production hub for most of its phones and other devices .
The coronavirus outbreak , which has morphed into a global pandemic , forced the government to put parts of China under complete lockdown .
But China 's health commission said on Thursday that the coronavirus epidemic has now peaked within the country , signalling that the government may soon be prepared to lift its disease control measures and reopen schools and businesses .
Apple shipped about 500,000 iPhones in China last month , down by more than half from the 1.27 million shipped in February last year , according to a monthly report published by state - run research institute China Academy of Information and Communications Technology ( CAICT ) .
Foxconn , Apple ’s main iPhone assembler , said on Thursday it expected to resume normal production in mainland China by the end of March , and over half of its seasonal workforce had restarted work .
Apple ’s much anticipated 5 G iPhone , which was set for release in the autumn , could be delayed by around a month due to supply chain disruption , according to a research report by Bank of America ( BofA ) .
As the coronavirus spreads globally , Apple on Wednesday closed all 17 of its retail stores indefinitely in Italy , which was been the worst hit country by the virus outside of China .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Apple reopens all its stores in China , with shorter hours , amid signs coronavirus has peaked in country first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Disneyland has only closed unexpectedly 3 times. Now it's closing for the rest of the month. .
2020-03-13 03:10:27 +00:00 .
Disneyland is the happiest place on Earth , and it 's also the most open place on the planet , allowing in guests 365 days a year .
Since the flagship park in Anaheim , California , opened in July 1955 , Disneyland has famously only had three unscheduled closures in its 65 - year history — until now .
On Thursday , the park announced its decision to temporarily close starting Saturday through the rest of the month , along with the adjacent Disney California Adventure , due to concerns about the new coronavirus .
That 's major , because it 's only happened a handful of times before .
Disneyland was closed for the national day of mourning after John F. Kennedy was assassinated in 1963 and the devastating Northridge Earthquake in 1994 .
Most recently , it was closed on September 11 , 2001 , although it was open the next day .
Children have seemed miraculously insusceptible to the novel coronavirus , although parents with preexisting health conditions or grandparents could get dangerously sick if they picked up germs at the park .
Additionally , while kids might not get severely ill themselves , they can still pass it on to others that can .
Disney World and Universal Studios , in Florida , at this point remain open .
As one mother of two visiting that park told The New York Times recently , " If I 'm going to get sick and die , I might as well do it at Disney World . "
More stories from theweek.com
The entire country of Norway is ' shutting down '
Officials : U.S. wages retaliatory airstrikes in Iraq following attack that killed 2 troops California governor issues order allowing state to commandeer hotels if needed to treat coronavirus patients

Qantas repaying at least $7.1m to workers .
2020-03-13 02:29:15 +00:00 .
Qantas is paying back $ 7.1 million to 640 marketing and administrative staff it underpaid for up to eight years , with some receiving a windfall of tens of thousands of dollars .
The airline self - reported the underpayment issue in February 2019 and said it involved staff who should have been covered by the enterprise agreement Qantas has with the Australian Services Union but were instead placed on individual contracts .
As a result , they did n't receive the minimum terms of those agreements , such as overtime , minimum wages and annual leave entitlements , the Fair Work Ombudsman said .
Qantas said that while 65 per cent of the 1000 misclassified employees missed receiving benefits they were owed - such as rostered time off or overtime - 83 per cent of them were better off overall than they would have been under the agreement , because they got higher base salaries and bonuses .
The airline said that from June 2011 to June 2019 , it simultaneously underpaid workers by a total of $ 7.1 million while overpaying them a total of $ 22 million .
" Qantas will not recover money paid in excess of the agreement and has grandfathered current benefits ( such as higher base salaries and bonuses ) as well as adding entitlements required by the enterprise agreement , such as rostered days off , " the airline said .
Under a Court - Enforceable Undertaking , Qantas has agreed to repay all workers , with interest , and give each affected worker an additional $ 1,000 payment by April 24 .
A spreadsheet on the Fair Work Ombudsman 's website indicates most workers will receive a few thousand dollars but some will get significantly more , with two workers who did n't get payments for their on - call overtime receiving $ 141,717.66 and $ 59,332.10 .
The airline will then have to make a " contrition payment " of 5.5 per cent of the underpayments to the federal government - expected to be around $ 400,000 .
Australian Services Union Assistant National Secretary Linda White said that was n't nearly enough .
" This is n't a punishment , it is condonement by the Regulator who is supposed to protect workers from abuse , " Ms White said .
" If you can steal $ 9 million , which would have earned millions in interest over that period and only get fined $ 390,500 , companies will keep doing it , because they profit from the practice .
" The Fair Work Ombudsman has effectively condoned wage theft - this is an insult to Qantas workers who had trusted their employer .
The Fair Work Ombudsman said that once Qantas finalises its underpayments an outside expert will then review them to sure all employees have received what they are due , with additional penalties in store if they have n't .
Numerous Australian companies in the past year have reported they were not paying workers in compliance with Australia 's complex labour laws , including Wesfarmers , Commonwealth Bank , Super Retail Group , Michael Hill Jewellers and the ABC .
Shares in the company were 14.42 per cent lower at $ 3.115 at 1300 AEDT on Friday as the coronavirus - driven rout of the market continues apace .
Qantas shares have slipped 59 per cent from an all - time high of $ 7.46 in December .

'This is unacceptable': New York City mayor denounces coronavirus discrimination .
2020-03-13 01:35:49 +00:00 .
At a media roundtable Wednesday , New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio condemned coronavirus - related discrimination against Asian communities .
De Blasio ’s denouncement comes after two separate attacks against Asian Americans in New York on March 10 .
That morning , a 23 - year - old woman told police another woman punched her in the face and made anti - Asian slurs , and the victim had to go to the hospital .
“ Right now , we 've seen particularly troubling instances of discrimination directed at Asian communities , particularly in Chinese community , ” de Blasio said .
“ This is unacceptable . ”
The New York City Police Department said that it is a “ possible biased incident ” and that it is an ongoing investigation by the Hate Crime Task Force .
Later in the evening , a 59 - year - old man said he was approached by a suspect who used anti - Asian remarks and then kicked him , causing him to fall .
The NYPD said the victim refused medical attention at the scene .
Full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak
The March 10 attacks are the latest in a wave of xenophobic harassment against Asian communities across the globe following the outbreak of the coronavirus .
Anti - Asian attacks led the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus to send a letter to colleagues Feb. 26 urging them to “ help prevent hysteria , ignorant attacks and racist assaults ” against Asian Americans resulting from misinformation about the coronavirus .
While de Blasio did not directly address the March 10 incidents , he pointed out that many hate crimes go unreported , and he implored people to report hate crimes to the NYPD so they can be dealt with .
“ Any act of discrimination could very well be something that constitutes a breaking of the law of the city , which we have a very strong human rights law , ” de Blasio said .
“ So people are discriminated against in employment , in terms of their day to day lives , shopping , housing , anything , we want to know about it , we want to stop it . ”
Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said in a statement March 11 that he was “ disgusted ” to hear of the attack on the 23 - year - old woman , saying that it was apparently motivated by a “ bigoted notion ” and that he is directing the State Police Hate Crimes Task Force to help investigate .
“ To be clear : there is zero evidence that people of Asian descent bear any additional responsibility for the transmission of the coronavirus , ” Cuomo said .

PornHub is offering free subscriptions to everyone quarantined in Italy during the coronavirus outbreak .
2020-03-12 22:02:13 +00:00 .
Crystal Cox / Business Insider PornHub is now offering people in mandated quarantine in Italy free premium subscriptions until April 3 as a way to help them cope with being cooped up inside indefinitely .
The platform is also donating profits from its ModelHub platform to Italy 's coronavirus containment efforts .
Staying inside for long periods of time can lead to feelings of irritability and sadness , but virtually connecting with humans can help .
Visit Insider 's homepage for more stories .
PornHub is now offering people in mandated quarantine in Italy free subscriptions to its site as a way to help them cope with being cooped up inside indefinitely .
The free subscriptions will be available until April 3 , providing those who sign up with access to the site 's premium content , the Daily Mail reported .
PornHub also said that they 'll be donating money from its ModelHub platform , where erotic creators can sell their content , to Italy 's coronavirus containment efforts .
" Forza Italia , We love you !
PornHub has decided to donate its percentage revenue from ModelHub platform from March to help Italy during the outbreak , " the PornHub press release read .
As of Thursday , March 12 , Italy 's death toll from the coronavirus outbreak was 631 , and there have been at least 10,000 reported cases of COVID-19 .
This makes Italy the second - most affected country after China , and spurred government officials to enact a country - wide lockdown of its 60 million citizens to prevent further coronavirus spread .
If people in Italy break the mandated quarantine , they could be fined or arrested , Business Insider previously reported .
Connecting virtually could help mitigate the negative effects of quarantine
But staying in inside for so long can lead to stir craziness , or feeling irritable , sad , or frustrated , from having limited human and outside contact .
" If we think about loneliness as this adaptive response kind of like hunger and thirst , it 's this unpleasant state that motivates us to seek out social connections just like hunger motivates us to seek out food , " lead study author Julianne Holt - Lunstad , a professor of psychology and neuroscience at Brigham Young University , previously told Insider .
Holt - Lunstad said that connecting virtually with others could help mitigate some of these negative effects because video chats " maintain those connections without potentially putting ourselves at risk of being exposed to the virus . "
It 's possible , then , that watching porn could help generate virtual human contact , in addition to spending time with those you 're quarantined with , to make the experience less anxiety- and depression - invoking .
Read the original article on Insider

New York Orders All Broadway Theaters Closed Due to Coronavirus .
2020-03-12 21:46:10 +00:00 .
Click here to read the full article .
This time , the show wo n’t go on .
A directive from New York Governor Andrew Cuomo banning gatherings of 500 or more people in an effort to stem the coronavirus pandemic will cause all Broadway theaters to close after 5 pm on Thursday .
The shutdown will remain in place until at least April 12 , with shows scheduled to resume the vnext day .
More from Robb Report
“ Our top priority has been and will continue to be the health and well - being of Broadway theatregoers and the thousands of people who work in the theatre industry every day , including actors , musicians , stagehands , ushers , and many other dedicated professionals , ” said Charlotte St. Martin , president of the Broadway League , in a statement .
Broadway League has previously said that theaters would remain open unless authorities intervened , and that time has come .
Other large gatherings in the state were ordered to cease beginning on Friday , but Broadway was under separate directives to end activity a day earlier .
This unfortunate series of events comes at a critical time in the theater world .
All shows must open by the April 23 deadline in order to be considered eligible for Tony Award nominations , the industry ’s highest honor .
The roughly month - long closure will give shows an incredibly narrow window to get up and running before that date comes to pass .
Some of the more prominent shows affected are Mrs. Doubtfire , Caroline or Change and
Who ’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf ?
As of Thursday , there are 95 confirmed cases of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) in New York City , one of whom happened to be an usher working at the Booth and Brooks Atkinson Theaters within the last few weeks .
Broadway shutdowns have been few and far between over the years .
The two most recent instances were in the immediate aftermath of 9/11 in 2001 and a musician ’s strike in 2003 that predominantly affected musicals .
Sign up for Robb Report 's Newsletter .
For the latest news , follow us on Facebook , Twitter , and Instagram .

Sasol Considers Selling Stock, Assets After Debt Surge .
2020-03-12 16:56:14 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Sasol Ltd. , South Africa ’s biggest company by revenue , said it may sell assets or stock to ease its financial woes after an oil - price collapse exacerbated a debt burden swelled by a troubled expansion in the U.S.
The fuel and chemicals producer will also seek to reduce operating costs and reschedule some capital expenditure , it said in a statement on Thursday .
The group will be within its debt covenants on June 30 , its financial year end , as long as oil prices remain at current levels , Sasol said .
“ The disruption in the global oil market , coupled with the ongoing impact of Covid-19 , has significantly changed the outlook in just a few weeks , ” Chief Executive Officer Fleetwood Grobler said .
“ It is critical that we keep matters within our control by acting quickly and decisively . ”
Sasol , which is due to hold a call for investors on March 17 , has seen its stock fall 88 % this year .
The plunge in the oil price driven by a disagreement between Saudi Arabia and Russia exacerbated investor concerns regarding its ability to repay debt after the cost of a chemicals plant in Louisiana surged almost 50 % to as much as $ 12.9 billion .
The shares pared losses after slumping 46 % earlier in the day , extending a stock - price free - fall as Monday ’s oil - price crash exacerbated debt concerns .
They were down 30 % at 37.24 rand at the close in Johannesburg , giving it a market value of 23 billion rand ( $ 1.4 billion ) .
The company holds debt of about 138 billion rand , according to Moody ’s .
Sasol is crucial to South Africa ’s economy .
The company , founded in 1950 , shielded the apartheid society from sanctions by making fuel from locally mined coal .
Today it still meets about 30 % of South Africa ’s motor - fuel needs and employs 31,000 people .
Sasol ’s biggest shareholders are linked to the government .
As of June 30 last year , the Government Employees Pension Fund , which holds the retirement funds of South African civil servants , owned 13.1 % of Sasol ’s stock and the Industrial Development Corp. , a state lender , held 8.2 % , according to a filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission .
“ Sasol is too strategically important for the South African government as a source of liquid fuels , taxes and high - paying jobs to be allowed to collapse , ” Alex Comer , an analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove , wrote in a note to clients .
The issue of government equity through state - owned fund manager , the Public Investment Corp. , might be an option in a worst - case scenario , he said .
The PIC manages the GEPF ’s money .
Sasol has cash and available facilities of about $ 2.5 billion and no significant debt maturities before May 2021 , the company said .
About $ 1 billion of loans are due then , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
( Adds JPMorgan comment in eighth paragraph ) --With assistance from Paul Burkhardt .
To contact the reporter on this story : Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at asguazzin@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : John McCorry at jmccorry@bloomberg.net , John Bowker , Robert Brand
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

UPS CEO David Abney to retire, board member Carol Tomé to take post at end of May .
2020-03-12 14:34:54 +00:00 .
The UPS CEO who began his career as a package handler for the company is stepping down .
David Abney , who began his career with UPS in 1974 , is retiring after six years as CEO , the company said Thursday .
UPS board member Carol Tomé , who previously served as chief financial officer at The Home Depot , will take over the top job at the end of May. Abney will serve as board chairman until he retires in September but will remain as a special consultant through the end of 2020 , the company said .
“ UPS has been one of my life ’s passions and through UPS
I have been able to live the American dream , ” Abney said in a statement .
Abney joined the company at a small UPS facility in Greenwood , Mississippi , when he was attending Delta State University .
Coronavirus effect : Economy , stocks look shakier after Trump announces European travel ban , NBA suspends season
Tax season 2020 :
Trump extending April 15 tax filing deadline for some as coronavirus spreads Carol Tomé , named UPS CEO on March 12 , 2020 .
She has been a member of the UPS Board of Directors since 2003 and serves as Chairperson of the Audit Committee .
Tomé is the former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Home Depot .
David Abney , the current Chairman and CEO , will remain in his role until June 1 when he will become executive chairman of the board .
He will retire from the UPS board on September 30 .
More
“ I am extremely pleased for Carol and know she is the best choice to lead the company , " he said .
" She understands UPS ’s culture and values , is a strategic leader and possesses a customer - first mindset . ”
Tomé will be the 12th CEO for UPS , which had its beginnings in 1907 in Seattle , Washington .
She has been a member of the UPS board of directors since 2003 and serves as the chairperson of its audit committee .
She spent 18 years at The Home Depot , also as an executive vice president .
“ I look forward to working with and further developing the talented management team and the company ’s 495,000 employees to deliver for our customers and shareowners , ” Tomé said in a statement .
UPS conducted " a rigorous selection process involving both internal and external candidates , " said William Johnson , the chair of the company 's nominating and corporate governance committee and is a member of the executive committee .
He will assume the role of non - executive chairman on Sept. 30 .
“ Carol is one of the most respected and talented leaders in Corporate America and has a proven track record of driving growth at a global organization , maximizing shareholder value , developing talent and successfully executing against strategic priorities , ” Johnson said .
David Abney , who began his career with UPS in 1974 , is retiring after six years as CEO , the company said Thursday .
Abney will serve as board chairman until he retires in September , but will remain as a special consultant through the end of 2020 .
UPS board member Carol Tomé , who previously served as chief financial officer at The Home Depot , will take over the top job at the end of May.
More
He also congratulated Abney " on a truly exceptional career at UPS .
He has undertaken bold actions to place UPS at the forefront of the transportation industry and position its global network and people to capitalize on emerging trends that will carry the company well into the future . ”
Before becoming CEO , Abney began serving as chief operating officer in 2007 .
Prior to that , he was president of UPS International .
Contributing : The Associated Press
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
UPS CEO David Abney to step down , shipper names Carol Tome ' as new CEO

JPMorgan Analysts Urge Large-Scale U.S. Treasury Buybacks .
2020-03-12 13:30:13 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
JPMorgan Chase Co. strategists called for the U.S. Treasury to replace older government bonds with current benchmarks to address liquidity strains in the world ’s biggest pool of risk - free securities .
Treasury market liquidity has dried up at times amid the tumult caused by fears over the economic hit of the coronavirus and the shock emergence of an oil - price war .
Trading - platform order books have thinned out to a degree last seen during the 2008 financial crisis .
The one - week average of Treasury - market depth has dropped to just $ 42 million in the 10 - year sector , down 75 % over the past month , according to JPMorgan .
“ It could be beneficial if Treasury began conducting large - scale buybacks in less - liquid , financing - intensive off - the - runs and replaced them with on - the - run securities , ” strategists led by Jay Barry and Jason Hunter wrote in a note Wednesday .
$ 50 Trillion in Question After U.S. Treasury Liquidity Dries Up
Such a move would resurrect a tool the Treasury Department used to maintain market access while running surpluses during the 1990s .
Back then , the Treasury bought back off - the - run debt , while still issuing on - the - run securities .
Currently the government has deficits instead of surpluses , but the Treasury continues to conduct small buyback operations to maintain operational readiness , JPMorgan said , citing two test operations last year .
This step would n’t address other challenges , such as the potential disruption to banks ’ dealing rooms from the virus itself .
JPMorgan Analysts Say Work - From - Home May Hit Funding Markets
“ At its root , it ’s clear that Treasury - market liquidity is fragile , largely due to changes in market structure over the past decade , ” the strategists wrote .
“ This can not be turned around quickly . ”
Moves of 10 and 20 basis points per session have been common in Treasuries amid the turmoil .
At one point a few days ago , the entire U.S. yield curve was below 1 % .
And the ICE BofA MOVE Index , which measures volatility in Treasury options , on Monday reached its highest level since June 2009 .
Some strategists have even called into question the safe - haven qualities of Treasuries amid the turbulence .
The 10 - year yield ended last year at 1.92 % , then fell as low as 0.31 % on Monday before rebounding .
It was at 0.685 % as of 9:10 a.m. in New York Thursday .
( Adds deck headlines , updates market pricing in last paragraph . )
--With assistance from Elizabeth Stanton .
To contact the reporter on this story : Joanna Ossinger in Singapore at jossinger@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Christopher Anstey at canstey@bloomberg.net , Elizabeth Stanton
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

A $100 Billion Debt Wave to Crash Over Europe’s Riskiest Firms .
2020-03-12 09:25:18 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Hundreds of high - risk companies in Europe need to repay or refinance nearly $ 100 billion in the coming months , a prospect that becomes more daunting by the day amid the relentless collapse in credit markets .
From Germany ’s Thyssenkrupp AG to Telecom Italia , around 600 European high - yield and non - rated bond borrowers have $ 92.5 billion bonds maturing by the end of 2021 , a narrow window to get deals done .
With investors running for the hills and the cost of raising funds soaring , that ’s a big ask .
As a result some companies are abandoning plans to raise debt on the bond market and exploring alternatives such as direct lending .
One measure of high yield debt risk in Europe jumped to its highest level since 2012 .
Jaguar Land Rover , for example , is planning to use its cash reserves to pay its $ 500 million bond due this week .
Commodity trading giant Trafigura might take that path as well with its two bonds amounting to 750 million euros ( $ 850 million ) due later this year , according to a spokesperson .
Others , like Codere SA , are waiting for the storm to pass .
The Spanish gaming company -- which has had to close its Italian bingo halls -- has two bonds due in November 2021 worth 800 million euros .
Read more : Credit Cracks Widen With Boeing Loan Drawdown , Debt Deals Halted
“ Our plan is to refinance when a window in the market opens , ” a company spokesperson wrote in an email .
“ We are working to be prepared but there is no doubt that the coronavirus and the uncertainty it has created in the market make it hard in the short term . ”
The firm ’s liquidity position is good , the person added .
Some companies took advantage of funding opportunities before the virus struck , like Italian infrastructure company Salini Impregilo SpA , which refinanced its 600 million euro bond due in June 2021 in January before any cases were confirmed in the country .
The new notes due in 2027 have dropped 24 cents on the euro since issuance to 75 cents , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
Leveraged loans falling due in the coming 18 months are scarce , but printing inks firm Flint does need to tackle a looming maturity .
Lenders agreed to extend its revolver to March 2021 to give it some breathing space , but the company has term loans worth 1.8 billion euros due in September next year , Bloomberg data show .
“ For firms that need extra liquidity , getting additional leeway from banks to roll over revolvers / draw on revolvers would be an option , as well as selling assets ” , wrote Stephen Caprio , a UBS credit strategist , in an email .
“ But generally the expectation is that issuance markets will need to open up again , so firms can refinance and term out debt as needed . ”
--With assistance from Ruth McGavin and Luca Casiraghi .
To contact the reporter on this story : Irene García Pérez in London at igarciaperez@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Vivianne Rodrigues at vrodrigues3@bloomberg.net , Bruce Douglas
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Wuhan sacks officials after pork deliveries are tipped into street from back of rubbish truck .
2020-03-12 09:09:25 +00:00 .
Two officials in the Chinese city of Wuhan were sacked and another was under investigation after government staff used a rubbish truck to ship a consignment of pork for human consumption , local authorities said .
Residents in the Yuanlin community of Qingshan district were outraged when the pork they bought from government stores arrived in the vehicle on Wednesday .
The meat , packed in plastic bags containing 1,000 portions , was tipped onto the ground and then handed out to customers , according to residents who complained about tainted food on Weibo , China ’s Twitter - like microblogging service .
In one widely shared photo , the bags were shown being dumped from a battered and dirty truck onto a large plastic sheet on the ground .
In another , several workers stepped onto the sheet to count the bags .
Food supplies have largely been controlled by the government since Wuhan , the city in central Hubei province at the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak , was locked down in late January .
Residents remained under quarantine and new cases , which hit nearly 4,000 a day in mid - February , fell to eight on Wednesday .
Luo Rong , deputy head of Qingshan district who was responsible for logistics during the epidemic , was under investigation , the city ’s discipline commission said on Thursday .
Two senior figures from the subdistrict government in Qingshan were sacked , authorities said on Wednesday .
They said 530 portions of pork were distributed that day , and government workers were sent to homes to apologise to customers and retrieve the tainted meat .
All the 1,000 portions would be destroyed , and consumers would receive the same amount of “ safe and clean ” meat later , the district government said .
Officials in Wuhan apologised to residents , who have been in lockdown for weeks , for the handling of their food deliveries .
Photo : Weibo
More
“ We failed to meet hygienic requirements of food transport and exerted a bad influence on residents ’ physical and psychological health .
We extend our sincere apologies to the residents , ” it said .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Wuhan sacks officials after pork deliveries are tipped into street from back of rubbish truck first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

'Never seen anything like this': Bookings for overseas flights from US plummet .
2020-03-11 22:30:57 +00:00 .
Bookings for international flights departing the U.S. suffered another steep decline over the past week , as would - be passengers concerned about COVID-19 shied away from travel commitments .
ForwardKeys , a data firm that tracks more than 17 million business and leisure bookings each day , exclusively told Yahoo Finance ’s “ On The Move ” on Wednesday that U.S. international bookings dropped 36.5 % year - over - year for the period of January 20 to March 8 .
Most strikingly , in the week of March 2 , cancellations for international flights departing from the U.S. outpaced bookings , according to Olivier Ponti , Vice President for ForwardKeys Insights .
“ Let 's be clear about this .
We 've never seen anything like this before .
This is unprecedented and it 's going extremely , extremely fast , ” Ponti said .
“ The situation is changing at a very fast pace . ”
The decline follows a less significant decrease of 19 % for U.S. international departures booked between January 20 and February 23 .
Both sets of data track trends starting the day before the Centers for Disease Control confirmed the first U.S. case of coronavirus on January 21 .
Empty seats on a flight from Frankfurt to Linz .
( Photo by Bradley Collyer / PA Images via Getty Images )
More
ForwardKeys says its data reflects 30 % to 40 % of all airline industry bookings .
Excluded are flights booked directly through airlines .
Its figures are based on business and leisure bookings processed through Global Distribution Systems ( GDS ) that also support major travel sites such as Booking.com ( BKNG ) and Expedia Group ( EXPE ) companies Orbitz , Travelocity , and Hotwire , as well as travel agents , online agents , and travel agencies .
Markets outside the U.S. are suffering a similar fate , with high - risk regions — including the epicenter of the outbreak , China , along with South Korea , Italy and Iran — facing the toughest declines .
Given the bulk of overseas bookings that represent U.S.-bound flights , minimal bookings elsewhere are certain to result in a domino effect that negatively impacts revenue for both airlines and the broader travel and tourism industry .
“ When we look at year - on - year variation by week , we see the situation keeps deteriorating , ” Ponti said .
“ Three weeks ago outbound bookings for the U.S. were about 24 % down .
Two weeks ago they were 50 % down .
And last week we 've reached a moment when there were actually more cancellations than bookings . ”
Ponti cautions that the delayed impact means consequences of the current situation are unlikely to be fully seen until months after the coronavirus is under control , and that a recovery is challenging to predict .
Unlike a terror attack or natural disaster , he said , the current problems are not localized .
Wishful travelers concerned about falling ill can not simply choose a flight and destination where they can be assured the virus does not exist .
“ There is no engine anymore .
The number one outgoing market worldwide , China , has disappeared pretty much from one day to the next .
And the number two outgoing of the market ( the U.S. ) is also starting to show signs of slowdown .
It 's already in a crisis .
We ’ve got so few bookings coming from the U.S. that clearly this will impact on the travel sector worldwide , ” Ponti said .
Alexis Keenan is a reporter for Yahoo Finance .
Follow her on Twitter @alexiskweed .
Read more :
Coronavirus has spurred an ‘ unprecedented ’ wave of US flight cancellatons , analyst says Airline CEOs warn coronavirus is cutting into reservations and are prepared for it to get worse
Coronavirus and travel : What you need to know Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , LinkedIn , YouTube , and Reddit .

Coachella Is Cancelled But Where Is Your Refund? All The Facts On How To Get Your Money Back .
2020-03-11 18:10:57 +00:00 .
This story was originally published on March 11th and will be continuously updated in the coming days .
In an unprecedented move , the Coachella music festival in Indio , California has been postponed until October .
Following the cancellation of South by Southwest and closures at the Google , Facebook , and Twitter offices , the companies behind the Coachella music festival are exercising an abundance of caution to prevent the further spread of COVID-19 .
But anyone who has planned a trip to Coachella knows it ’s more than just tickets .
Festival - goers can spend up to a few thousand dollars on flights , accommodations , and transportation to - and - from the venue , in addition to outfits , food , and events .
You ’ve likely already packed some version of a head - to - toe pink cowgirl look that you ca n’t really wear on any other occasion , especially not in October .
If you are one of these folks , you ’re probably wondering what to do about the money you spent on flights you ’re not going to take and how to cancel your Airbnb without losing a few hundred dollars in fees .
So while you might not be able to return the spray tan or colored highlights you got ahead of Coachella , here is the latest news on how to get the rest of your money back .
Coachella Tickets Refunds
As of the March 10 announcement , Coachella ticket holders will have their April tickets honored for the new October dates .
The first weekend will be on October , 9 , 10 and 11 while the second will follow on October 16 , 17 , 18 .
Coachella ’s sister festival , Stagecoach , has been pushed to October as well .
However , if a full refund sans cancellation fees is what you seek , you ’ll have to hang tight until Friday , March 13 , when Goldenvoice will tell purchasers how to obtain full refunds if they are unable to attend in October .
So check back in for details on Friday .
Airbnb Refunds
As of March 10 , Airbnb announced its “ More Flexible Reservation ” suite of tools .
It ’s a series of policies and incentives the company has put in place to make bookings and cancellations less financially burdensome in times like these .
It rewards flexible hosts for giving full refunds and waiving the usual service and cancellation fees .
Airbnb will waive the standard 3 % host fee for new bookings through June 2020 .
Travelers will be able to filter their searches to focus on flexible bookings .
For bookings made starting now through June 2020 , Airbnb will also refund guest service fees as travel coupons that can be used for future bookings .
All of this to say , if you booked your Coachella accommodations with Airbnb , you do stand to lose some money .
Plenty of Airbnb listings are subject penalty - free cancellation and you can also contest cancellation or service fees under the “ extenuating circumstances ” cancellation policy , which was recently expanded .
Related Content :
Like what you see ?
How about some more R29 goodness , right here ?
Is It
A Bad Idea To Travel This Spring Break ?
How To Properly Disinfect Your Phone
How Uber
Lyft Are Responding To Coronavirus

How To Navigate First Dates In The Coronavirus Outbreak .
2020-03-11 12:49:44 +00:00 .
Updated : See the latest stories on the coronavirus outbreak .
Forget love , coronavirus is in the air , and it ’s impacting the dating scene – specifically , first dates .
As cases continue to rise across the UK , meeting up with a near - stranger you ’ve met online is becoming less appealing for those concerned about contagion .
As one colleague who ’s currently trying to suss out a match ’s holiday history put it : “ You literally do n’t know where they ’ve been . ”
Then there ’s the question of what quarantine may mean for a budding romance : if you both suddenly need to self - isolate , do you bed down together ?
In the hot throes of a new relationship , it could be bliss .
But if the spark dies , you ’ve committed to 14 long and painful days .
If only we had some Love Is Blind - style dating pods to meet potential partners , strictly four feet apart .
Without such handy provision , daters appear to be exercising caution – social media is awash with tales of people cancelling or being cancelled on .
( Photo : smartboy10 via Getty Images )
More READ MORE :
How To Manage Coronavirus At The Gym Christina * , 38 , from London , postponed a date with a guy she ’d met on Hinge three weeks ago .
The pair were due to meet at a wine bar in Soho , aptly named Antidote .
“ At about lunch time he sent me a message saying ‘ there ’s something I think I should tell you before tonight ’ – and that ’s all that flashed up on my screen before I opened the message in full , ” she tells HuffPost UK .
As her imagination went into overdrive – was he married ?
– she read the full message and learned her date had a distant link to the virus .
A colleague of his was in self - isolation , because someone at their child ’s school had tested positive .
The date said he ’d “ totally understand ” if she wanted to postpone , so she decided to err on the side of caution and rearrange after the 14 - day incubation period passed .
“ We finally met up in the same wine bar we ’d planned to go to two weeks previously – and we did n’t really get on or fancy each other at all ! ”
she laughs .
Dating in the time of virus is feasible , says therapist Sally Baker , and it may even help people gain clarity about the kind of romance they ’re looking for .
Is that date you ’ve halfheartedly agreed to really worth it ?
“ It will mean being more vigilant about how your date looks when you meet , ” adds Baker .
“ The focus wo n’t just be on are they handsome or pretty , but more whether that patina of sweat on the forehead is just nerves or are they running a temperature ? ”
READ MORE :
The Psychology Behind Panic - Buying – And How To Avoid It Etiquette consultant Julia Esteve Boyd says if you ’re going on a first date and feel anxious about the virus , it ’s totally okay to ask them about it .
But how direct should you be ?
“ Someone with a direct personality should ask questions outright , be upfront as you are normally , ” she advises .
“ If you feel concerned but uncomfortable , you should n’t let that stop you from asking .
“ You could handle it in more indirect manner by discussing the virus and finding out their thoughts .
Take it from there until you find out all the information you need – it will take longer , though . ”
Of course , if you have a link to the virus but are n’t yet required to self - isolate , it might be polite to flag it to your date , like Christina ’s love interest .
And if you do both decide to go ahead , do n’t feel obliged to hug or cheek - kiss when you meet .
Story continues

Tesla Prepares To Increase Gigafactory 3 Production Capacity .
2020-03-11 12:28:08 +00:00 .
It 's expected that the upcoming next step will be for 250,000 cars annually .
Reuters reports that Tesla is in the process of preparation to expand its manufacturing capacity at the Gigafactory 3 in Shanghai from around 150,000 cars annually to around 250,000 - 260,000 cars annually .
A document submitted by Tesla to the Shanghai government , seen by Reuters , indicates the intention to expand production of battery packs , electric motors , motor controllers and other components .
" Tesla wants to almost double its annual building capacity for cooling pipes , a key part in a car ’s heat management system , to 260,000 sets a year from 150,000 .
It did not provide capacity details for other parts . "
" The company is also building an additional stamping line to speed up car production in Shanghai , according to construction documents seen by Reuters . "
See also
As of the end of December , about 70 % of the parts in the Made - in - China ( MIC ) Model 3 were imported parts , while Tesla 's ultimate goal is to rely only on parts produced locally in China .
The new production number of 250,000 cars per year would include the new Tesla Model Y.
We also guess that in the near future , Tesla might officially expand Model 3 production in China from the entry - level Standard Range Plus ( RWD ) version to also Long Range / Performance and AWD versions .
Tesla Gigafactory 3 facts : location : Shanghai , China wholly - owned subsidiary ( not joint venture ) expected total investment : about $ 2 billion construction was started in January 2019
purpose : production of affordable versions of Model 3 / Model Y for greater China region ( higher cost versions of 3 / Y and all S / X to be produced in the U.S. ) battery packs will be assembled using lithium - ion cells from various suppliers , including Panasonic expected volume : 150,000 per year in the first phase and 500,000 per year in the future
Targets : production of cars ( between 1,000 to 2,000 per week by the end of 2019 ) to start in the second - half of 2019 ( volume production , of 3,000 cars per week initially , from 2020 ) , First customer deliveries of Made - in - China ( MIC ) Model 3 happened on December 30 , 2019
Elon Musk officially announced Model Y program at Gigafactory 3 on January 7 , 2020
Tesla was able to achieve a production rate of about 280 cars a day ( 10 - hour shift ) or almost 2,000 a week in December 2019 .
The production capacity was up to 3,000 cars per week .
Production of battery packs started in December 2019 ( but at the time not yet at the rate of car production ) .
The production was resumed on February 10 , 2020 , after an extended break , caused by the fight with coronavirus Source :
Reuters

Google follows Facebook in banning ads for medical face masks as coronavirus disinformation spreads .
2020-03-11 08:25:56 +00:00 .
Google is temporarily banning ads for medical facial masks amid the continued spread of the coronavirus worldwide in an effort to stop people profiting from disinformation about the health crisis .
“ Out of an abundance of caution , we have decided to temporarily ban all medical face mask ads , ” said Google ’s spokeswomen in an email to the Post .
The company said it has an entire team monitoring the situation and evaluating policies “ in real time ” , blocking tens of thousands of ads that were trying to capitalise on the novel coronavirus .
“ For example , we ’re seeing a rise in ads that may not mention coronavirus but are clearly trying to capitalise on it .
We ’re taking action to stop this on our platforms , ” the spokeswoman said .
Google ’s move follows similar action by Facebook last week .
“ Supplies are short , prices are up , and we ’re against people exploiting this public health emergency , ” Instagram chief executive Adam Mosseri said in a tweet announcing a ban on ads and commerce listings for medical face masks on Instagram and Facebook .
The coronavirus outbreak , which has caused more than 4,200 deaths worldwide as of Wednesday , has also sparked what the World Health Organisation calls an “ infodemic ” .
The false information includes advice that vitamin D will prevent the virus , boiled garlic water is a cure , or that the deadly virus was created in Canada and stolen by Chinese spies .
In China , where the outbreak began , tech companies are also working to protect people from misinformation and stabilise product prices for medical items like face masks .
Chinese search giant Baidu said it had removed more than 147,000 examples of “ harmful information ” related to coronavirus as of February 12 , including messages designed to create panic , false rumours , promotion and sale of wild animals , asking high prices for protective medical equipment , and scams involving face masks .
Chinese e - tailers including Alibaba Group ’s Taobao , Suning and JD.com made pledges late January to prevent price spikes for medical items including face masks and disinfectant , and to offer non - stop deliveries during Lunar New Year as rumours spread that supplies of in - demand items like masks were running low at most drug stores in some of the country ’s biggest cities .
While authorities in China have advised people to wear a mask while both indoors and outdoors , some public health experts disagree .
“ It scares everybody to wear masks on the streets when there are no people .
Very few people are on the streets these days , yet
[ the government ] still wants people to wear masks .
It is ridiculous , ” said Dr Tang Deliang , a professor of environmental health sciences at Columbia University Medical Centre , who said in a recent interview with the Post that he voluntarily spends his evenings answering questions online from China about the health crisis .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Google follows Facebook in banning ads for medical face masks as coronavirus disinformation spreads first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Surging Volatility Turns Currency Trade Darling Into Loser .
2020-03-11 06:15:01 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The highest volatility in a decade has trounced carry traders and is pushing a momentum - based approach to the fore .
Amid the coronavirus shock , an oil - price war and turmoil in equities , turbulence in Japan ’s currency reached levels unseen since 2008 this week .
Even after a resurgence of risk appetite Tuesday , there ’s little doubt about what ’s worked for investors this year : The trend - following strategy is up 9.5 % , while carry trades have lost 7.4 % , according to Deutsche Bank AG data .
It ’s a stark turnaround for carry , which thrives in periods of calm and delivered the best returns in 2019 .
Demand for havens has driven the reversal in the $ 6.6 trillion - a - day market .
In the past few weeks , investors have exited riskier , higher - yielding currencies and piled into the yen , a favored oasis for investors in times of stress .
For traders , spiking volatility and questions about how policy makers will try to stabilize the economic outlook suggest momentum will continue to rule for the time being .
“ The carry trade is lost in the uncertainty surrounding the virus , collapse in oil prices and global growth , ” said Paresh Upadhyaya , a portfolio manager at Amundi Pioneer Asset Management .
“ It could be some time before it comes back . ”
To illustrate the volatility : The yen soared to a more than three - year high of 101.19 per dollar Monday .
It then slumped the most since 2013 on Tuesday amid expectations of fiscal stimulus from the Trump administration .
The wild swings raised speculation that the Japanese government may consider intervening in the market for the first time since 2011 .
The yen bounced back on Wednesday , rising more than 1 % .
2020 Turnaround
In the carry trade , investors borrow in low - yielding currencies such as the yen or euro and use the proceeds to buy bonds or other assets where rates are higher .
It returned 2.9 % in 2019 , outpacing strategies that depend on momentum and value , Deutsche Bank data show .
Last year , the carry approach dominated in part because FX markets were calmer than ever .
At year - end , one - month dollar - yen implied volatility reached an unprecedented low .
It started to surge in January as doubts about the economic outlook grew with the spread of the coronavirus .
The strategy has also suffered from declining liquidity in currencies amid the market turmoil .
Carry has been the “ stark underperformer ” as thinner liquidity means “ position unwinds have been able to impact price action to a greater degree , ” Meera Chandan , a strategist at JPMorgan Chase Co. , wrote in a note to clients emailed Tuesday .
( Adds Japan intervention concern in sixth paragraph and volatility chart after seventh paragraph . )
--With assistance from Masaki Kondo .
To contact the reporters on this story : Susanne Barton in New York at swalker33@bloomberg.net;Robert Fullem in New York at rfullem5@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Benjamin Purvis at bpurvis@bloomberg.net , Mark Tannenbaum , Emily Barrett
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Y Combinator moves its online Demo Day forward one week .
2020-03-11 05:40:35 +00:00 .
Just days ago , Y Combinator announced that its upcoming Demo Day event would be moving online due to " growing concern over COVID-19 " .
The event , previously planned to span across two days at San Francisco 's Pier 48 building , would instead be hosted entirely online on March 23rd .
More changes this evening : YC is shifting Demo Day forward one full week , from March 23rd to March 16th .
In a blog post on the change , Y Combinator CEO and partner Michael Seibel cites an " accelerated " pace from investors in recent days as having encouraged the move :
Over the last few days , a large number of investors have accelerated their outreach to our current batch of founders .
They are moving quickly to make investment decisions , and we ’re going to match their pace and accelerate our schedule by one week .
YC W20 online Demo Day will now be on March 16 .
On March 16 , the YC Demo Day website will go live , a modified version of the website that investors and founders have used over the past five years .
Through the website , investors will have access to a single - slide summary , a short description of the company , and a team bio .
They can sort companies by industry and geography , and will be able to export the list of companies to a spreadsheet .
While YC initially said that the pitches each company traditionally does live onstage for Demo Day would be " pre - recorded and released to all investors at the same time , " the announcement of the sooner - than - expected Demo Day only mentions slide summaries , company descriptions , and team bios — suggesting plans might have changed a bit to accommodate the new schedule .
Y Combinator confirmed to me that the Demo Day site will not have video presentations .

JPMorgan Warns ‘Work From Home’ Risks Disrupting Funding Markets .
2020-03-11 02:06:44 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The impact of the coronavirus outbreak on Wall Street may worsen trading conditions for one of the world ’s most liquid and important assets : U.S. Treasuries .
So say strategists at JPMorgan Chase Co. , who warn that overwhelmed dealer - banks in an extreme scenario could be flooded with an extra $ 300 billion worth of U.S. government debt .
That could then challenge the repurchase market , a vital part of the financial system ’s plumbing , just months after the Federal Reserve was forced into actions to support it .
Global financial centers are grappling with the implications of the outbreak , with New York and London seeing “ split ” operations as big banks and dealers divide their workforces and instruct traders to work from home .
Business - continuity disruptions could damp liquidity , contributing to extreme moves in reaction to unexpected developments and worsening what ’s already been a turbulent ride for investors .
“ Though the world is much more focused on market risk at the moment , it is important to bear in mind that we also in the early stages of the first large - scale operational - risk episode , ” JPMorgan analysts led by Joshua Younger wrote in a note .
“ Liquidity overall could also suffer , with some signs of emergent stress already apparent and transaction costs in even benchmark Treasuries significantly higher than even prior episodes of stress . ”
The analysts have been pointing to signs of strain in the U.S. Treasury market , including wider bid - ask spreads and a rise in the general collateral rate for repo transactions .
Yields on benchmark 10 - year U.S. Treasuries dropped sharply in recent weeks , reaching a record low of 0.31 Monday as investors herded into the safety of government debt amid the worst Wall Street sell - off since the global financial crisis .
It would n’t be the first time that liquidity -- essentially a description for the ease of trading -- dried up in the Treasury market .
In October 2014 , a sudden “ flash ” rally shocked traders and prompted U.S. regulators to investigate the price action .
A disruption in the vast repo market , where Treasuries are a crucial form of collateral for loans among financial institutions , unsettled investors last September .
That then prompted the Fed to unveil billions of dollars worth of liquidity support for the market , in an initiative still under way .
While many of the largest and most systemically important dealer - banks have contingency plans in place to deal with this type of disruption , the JPMorgan analysts said , smaller operators -- which have become bigger players in one type of overnight repo -- may be more vulnerable .
“ We are already seeing market - making severely disrupted , and to the extent that logistical frictions prevent ‘ human ’ traders from providing a backstop , liquidity - transaction costs can stay very high compared to even recent history , ” the JPMorgan team said .
“ For many market participants , operationally intensive activities with limited potential upside will look far less appealing .
This is particularly true of overnight repo funding . ”
To contact the reporter on this story : Tracy Alloway in Hong Kong at talloway@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Tracy Alloway at talloway@bloomberg.net , Christopher Anstey , Joanna Ossinger
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Coronavirus: Coachella becomes latest music festival to be postponed .
2020-03-11 00:13:02 +00:00 .
The Coachella music festival , which was due to start on 10 April , has been postponed until October amid fears of spreading the coronavirus .
The event , an annual highlight of the music scene since 2001 , was due to be held between 10 April and 19 April , at Indio , California .
It is now scheduled for the weekends of 9 - 11 October and 16 - 18 October .
In a statement on the Coachella website , organisers said : " At the direction of the County of Riverside and local health authorities , we must sadly confirm the rescheduling of Coachella and Stagecoach due to Covid-19 concerns .
" While this decision comes at a time of universal uncertainty , we take the safety and health of our guests , staff and community very seriously .
We urge everyone to follow the guidelines and protocols put forth by public health officials .
" Coachella will now take place on October 9 , 10 and 11 and October 16 , 17 and 18 , 2020 .
Stagecoach will take place on October 23 , 24 and 25 , 2020 .
All purchases for the April dates will be honored for the rescheduled October dates .
Purchasers will be notified by Friday , March 13 on how to obtain a refund if they are unable to attend .
" Thank you for your continued support and we look forward to seeing you in the desert this fall . "
More follows …

Dark Mofo cancels 2020 event amid coronavirus fears to ensure long-term survival .
2020-03-10 23:47:15 +00:00 .
Hobart ’s mid - winter festival Dark Mofo , hosted by the Museum of Old and New Art and set for June , has been cancelled due to concerns about coronavirus .
The festival is the latest casualty of the outbreak , which has already claimed the major music , tech and film festival SXSW , which was set to open on 16 March in Austin , Texas ; Coachella , which has been postponed until October ; the Miami dance music festival Ultra , due to begin on 20 March ; and Miami ’s Winter music festival , set for 16 March .
Madonna has cancelled the final two dates of her Madame X world tour , on 10 and 11 March ; Pearl Jam have postponed the first leg of their US tour ; and , in Australia , Miley Cyrus has pulled out of a bushfire relief concert set for Friday in Melbourne , which has been cancelled as a result .
But with all these dates imminent , Dark Mofo ’s cancellation – “ after a thorough risk assessment ” – is an outlier : the festival was due to begin in three months ’ time , on 10 June .
Related : Womadelaide festival 2020 : mariachi , Mavis and the sounds of Mali – in pictures
“ The financial exposure faced by [ Mona ’s owner ] David Walsh of a festival - wide last - minute cancellation would run into the millions , and likely end the event permanently , ” Dark Mofo ’s creative director , Leigh Carmichael , said on Wednesday .
“ We ’ve had to act decisively to ensure Dark Mofo ’s long - term survival . ”
In a typically idiosyncratic statement , Walsh said on Facebook the decision “ will murder an already massacred tourism in Hobart ” but “ I feel like I have no choice ( hint : that means I have a choice ” .
The early decision largely came down to “ fear compelled by uncertainty ” , he said .
His wife , the artist Kirsha Kaechele , was having trouble selling tickets to an April fundraiser ; Walsh ’s gambling - related income had already been jeopardised ( “ horseracing is being cancelled in COVID-19 - affected countries .
Soon , that might be all of them ” ) ; and he was concerned “ we would have trouble selling tickets to Dark Mofo events also ” .
“ Right now , the government and Mona are each on the hook for $ 2 million to run Dark Mofo , ” Walsh continued .
“ That ’s bad .
What ’s worse , as far as I ’m concerned , is that if we ran Dark and nobody came , I ’d lose $ 5 million or more …
That kind of blowout would affect Mona ’s program , and I ’d be back to subsisting on the diet I had when I was eighteen – pineapples and mint slice biscuits . ”
Bon Iver ’s sold - out performances – the only part of the 2020 program that had been announced – are still going ahead on 12 and 13 June , “ subject to further government advice ” .
The rest of the 2020 program will be pushed to next year .

Bolsonaro’s Claim of Vote Fraud Raises Tension in Brazil .
2020-03-10 19:42:34 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro claimed that election fraud robbed him of an outright victory in the 2018 presidential vote , stirring political tensions just a few days before anti - Congress protests scheduled for March 15 .
“ In my understanding , there was fraud ” in the election , Bolsonaro said at an event in Miami , according to a video posted on Twitter by local TV station Record .
He said he would soon share “ proof ” of his allegations , but has so far presented none .
Bolsonaro is currently in Florida , where he met with President Donald Trump over the weekend , and is scheduled to return to Brazil later on Tuesday .
Political pressure has been building up in the country since he shared a video urging his supporters to turn out for nationwide pro - government , anti - Congress rallies on Sunday .
Disagreement over budget funds is also hurting relations with the legislature , which is currently debating a set of investor - friendly bills .
Brazil ’s electoral court , known as TSE , said the country ’s electronic ballots are internationally recognized as reliable and efficient and that no case of fraud has ever been proven since the system was adopted over two decades ago .
“ If there ’s any evidence of irregularity , the TSE will act with speed and transparency to investigate , ” the court said in a statement .
Bolsonaro ’s office did n’t provide additional comments when contacted by Bloomberg .
The Supreme Court did n’t respond to a request for comment either .
Read more : Bolsonaro Call for Protests Sours Relations With Brazil Congress
March Protests Bolsonaro , elected in October 2018 after a runoff vote , continues to portray himself as an outsider who ’s fighting against Brazil ’s political establishment -- a narrative that resonates with his supporters on social media .
He has repeatedly called for Brazil to drop electronic voting systems and bring back paper ballots .
In his remarks on Monday , he said the March protests are not against Congress , but rather in support of Brazil , and added that they could lose strength if lawmakers give up power over a portion of the nation ’s budget , local media reported .
“ We ’re not going to fall into that trap , ” said Marcelo Ramos , deputy leader of the largest coalition of parties in Brazil ’s lower house .
“ I do n’t want to talk about electronic ballot , I want to talk about measures to face the crisis , coronavirus , unemployment . ”
Bolsonaro needs lawmaker support to pass economic reforms as his administration confronts global headwinds and signs of a souring domestic recovery with limited chances for stimulus .
( Adds comment from lawmaker in second to last paragraph . )
--With assistance from Rachel Gamarski , Murilo Fagundes and Julia Leite .
To contact the reporters on this story : Samy Adghirni in Brasilia Newsroom at sadghirni@bloomberg.net;Simone Iglesias in Brasília at spiglesias@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Walter Brandimarte at wbrandimarte@bloomberg.net , Matthew Malinowski
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Madonna forced to end Madame X Tour early due to coronavirus restrictions .
2020-03-10 16:15:54 +00:00 .
Madonna has ended her Madame X Tour early due to coronavirus restrictions .
The singer announced on Monday that her two remaining gigs , planned for 10 and 11 March in Paris , France , have been cancelled .
This comes after French authorities barred gatherings of more than 1,000 people as part of their response to the outbreak .
“ Following official notification from the Office of the Police this morning prohibiting all events with an audience attendance of over 1000 , Live Nation regrets to announce the final two Madame X performances previously re - scheduled to 10 March and 11 March are forced to be cancelled , ” reads a message on Madonna ’s website .
Those who had bought tickets will be able to obtain a refund at the point of purchase .
“ We regret the disappointment to fans , ” adds the note .
Madonna previously had to cancel two shows in Paris on 1 and 7 March , citing “ ongoing injuries ” .
Other artists , including Mariah Carey , BTS and Stormzy , have had to modify their performing schedules due to the outbreak .
In the US , the South by Southwest festival has been cancelled .
It was scheduled for 13 - 22 March in Austin , Texas .
Read more Woody Allen ’s memoir could still be published in France
Mia Farrow , David Walliams and more honour
Max von Sydow Avengers : Endgame directors to produce film with Tom Brady

CES Asia the latest tech event to be called off amid global spread of coronavirus .
2020-03-10 04:45:50 +00:00 .
CES Asia scheduled for June in Shanghai has been postponed , the latest major tech event forced to shelve plans amid the ongoing coronavirus outbreak .
The decision was taken for the well being of all stakeholders given the “ evolving global concerns ” about the fast - spreading disease , organiser the Consumer Technology Associaton ( CTA ) said in a statement on Monday .
The CTA did not provide a new date for the postponed event .
Since its launch in Shanghai in 2015 , CES Asia has become one of the city ’s major trade shows to showcase the latest gadgets and technologies for Chinese consumers , foreign buyers and media .
“ We made this decision at this time as we know companies and attendees invest considerable time and effort in planning for trade shows like CES Asia , ” said the CTA .
“ Given the evolving global concerns about and impact of the coronavirus , we feel this is the best decision for everyone involved . ”
All exhibitors that signed up with early payment for exhibit space for the dates June 10 to 12 will receive a refund in full , according to organiser .
The coronavirus has forced most tech conventions around the world to cancel .
One of the earliest was in February when MWC Barcelona , the world ’s biggest mobile industry gathering , was cancelled less than two weeks before its opening after some of its biggest participants pulled out .
Over the weekend , the South by Southwest festival , a major tech and music event in Austin , Texas , was officially cancelled over coronavirus concerns .
Austin health officials said the decision was a precautionary measure and an effort to be proactive .
Tech companies have pulled events involving large gatherings amid the global spread of the outbreak .
Google cancelled its 2020 I / O developer conference that was due to take place in May , after it shifted its Cloud Next event scheduled for April to an online platform .
Last month , Chinese search giant Baidu cancelled a planned celebration event for its 20th year anniversary that was to take place in Beijing .
Facebook also cancelled its in - person developer gathering F8 , citing “ growing concerns ” around the coronavirus as the reason .
“ This was a tough call to make – F8 is an incredibly important event for Facebook and it ’s one of our favourite ways to celebrate all of you from around the world – but we need to prioritise the health and safety of our developer partners , employees and everyone who helps put F8 on , ” the company said in a statement in February .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article CES Asia the latest tech event to be called off amid global spread of coronavirus first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

22-year-old Guatemalan asylum-seeker dies in ICE custody .
2020-03-10 02:45:58 +00:00 .
A 22 - year - old asylum - seeker from Guatemala detained by U.S. immigration authorities died at a Texas hospital Sunday , becoming the eighth immigrant to die in the custody of Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ) in fiscal year 2020 .
Maria Celéste Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez , whose death was first reported by BuzzFeed News , had been hospitalized since February 18 .
According to officials , Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez died of " autoimmune hepatitis , complicated by septic shock and acute liver failure " at a hospital in Fort Worth .
Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez had family in the U.S. and passed her credible fear interview , the first step for migrants to request humanitarian protection in the U.S.
Traditionally , these factors have allowed migrants with no criminal records to continue their immigration proceedings outside of a detention center , but the young Guatemalan woman was in U.S. immigration custody for more than six months .
Since fiscal year 2020 , which began last October , seven other immigrants have died in ICE custody .
With Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez 's death , there have now been as many deaths in fiscal year 2020 as there were in the entirety of fiscal year 2019 .
Like Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez , some of them , including a Cuban asylum - seeker who died by apparent suicide in October , were seeking humanitarian protection at the time of their death .
" ICE is firmly committed to the health and welfare of all those in its custody and is undertaking a comprehensive agency - wide review of this incident , as it does in all such cases , " the agency said in a statement Monday .
Conditions at detention facilities used by ICE , which oversees the main component of the largest immigration detention system in the world , have come under severe scrutiny by immigration advocates and Democrats .
They 've accused the agency of not having adequate medical standards in its facilities and have called on officials to allow asylum - seekers who do not pose threats to public safety to fight their deportation outside of detention centers .
ICE has repeatedly maintained that deaths in the agency 's custody " are exceedingly rare and occur at a fraction " of the national average .
According to ICE , Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez was first apprehended by Border Patrol in early September after she crossed the southern border without documents near Hidalgo , Texas .
Two days later , she was transferred to ICE custody , which initially detained her at the El Valle Detention Facility in Raymondville , Texas .
In early October , Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez was given a notice to appear before an immigration judge after she proved to an asylum officer that her fear of returning to Guatemala was credible .
Sometime before February , Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez was transferred to a detention center in Oklahoma , according to Guatemala 's Foreign Ministry .
Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez was hospitalized on February 7 and underwent gallbladder surgery two days later .
She then returned to the detention center in Oklahoma .
On February 13 , she was transferred to the Prairieland Detention Center in Alvarado , Texas , according to ICE .
On February 18 , ICE took Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez to a hospital near the detention center .
The Guatemalan Foreign Ministry said this occurred because she was suffering from abdominal pain .
Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez remained there until February 28 , when she was transported to the Forth Worth hospital , where she died on Sunday .
Ochoa Yoc de Ramírez 's family in Guatemala has requested help from the government there to repatriate her remains .
Biden leads Sanders in new Michigan poll Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders battle for the Midwest Coronavirus fears and oil price war wreak havoc on stocks

In coronavirus crisis, Trump's stock-market advice keeps looking worse .
2020-03-09 21:48:58 +00:00 .
Almost forgotten in the rush of doom - and - gloom headlines about the spread of coronavirus and Monday ’s record - breaking stock market sell - off is President Trump ’s two - week - old advice to would - be investors to buy stocks .
Though the first market jitters over the economic impact of coronavirus had already led to consecutive triple digit losses , Trump posted an optimistic appraisal of the investment landscape on Feb. 24 .
Hours after Trump ’s tweet was published , the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at 28,992 , down 227 points .
A day later Larry Kudlow , Trump ’s director of the National Economic Council , made a second appeal on behalf of the beleaguered stock market .
“ The virus story is not going to last forever , ” Kudlow said in an interview .
“ I would suggest very seriously taking a look at the market , the stock market , that is a lot cheaper than it was a week or two ago . ”
Despite Kudlow ’s optimism , the DJIA fell another 1,031 points that day , to close at 27,912 .
In fact , that week turned out to be the worst for the stock market since the 2007 financial crisis , with the DJIA losing 3,500 points and wiping out $ 3 trillion in value .
On Feb. 27 , three days after offering his stock market tip , Trump announced he was appointing Vice President Mike Pence to head up his coronavirus task force , which also included Kudlow .
During a White House press conference , Trump assured assured the country that the number of Americans infected with the virus “ was going very substantially down , not up , ” and that “ within a couple of days ” the tally would be “ down close to zero . ”
Perhaps buoyed by that infectious confidence , Trump ’s son , Eric , jumped on the “ buy the dip ” bandwagon .
But just as the number of cases did not go down as Trump had foreseen ( the number has risen from 60 confirmed cases at the time of Trump ’s press conference to over 600 as of Monday ) , the stock market proved an equally bad bet .
On Monday , it fell 2,014 points , the larges single - day point loss in history , and closed at 23,851 .
For those keeping score at home , that more than 5,000 points lower than when Trump proclaimed the markets were starting to look good .
Of course , Trump is n’t the first president to encourage Americans to invest in the stock market .
On March 3 , 2009 , then - President Obama saw an opportunity to buy following a nearly 300 - point dip in the Dow , which at that time had fallen to 6,726 points in the wake of the great recession .
“ What you ’re now seeing is profit - and - earnings rations are starting to get to the point where buying stocks is a potentially good deal if you ’ve got a long - term perspective on it . ”
From the time he said that through the end of his presidency , the SP 500 rose by nearly 225 percent .
_ _ _ _ _
Read more from Yahoo News :

Dow plunges more than 2,100 points, oil crashes as price war erupts and coronavirus spreads .
2020-03-09 19:42:39 +00:00 .
U.S. equity markets were sharply lower Monday after an oil price war broke out between Saudi Arabia and Russia and the new coronavirus showed signs of spreading .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down more than 2,150 points , or 8.2 percent , at session lows while the SP 500 and Nasdaq Composite were lower by 7.9 percent and 7.2 percent , respectively .
The Dow and SP 500 were on track for their biggest drops since December 2008 .
THE VIX EXPLAINED
Monday 's sharp selloff , which caused the major averages to be temporarily halted due to volatility
, caused the New York Federal Reserve to increase its daily cash injections into the banking system to $ 150 billion from $ 100 billion .
The stock - market 's steep slide comes after a production dispute between OPEC members , led by Saudi Arabia , and Russia sent West Texas Intermediate crude oil , the U.S. benchmark , plunging by as much as 33.8 percent , the most since the outbreak of the 1991 Persian Gulf War , to a low of $ 27.34 a barrel in overnight trading .
The energy component finished the day down 24.59 percent at $ 31.13 a barrel .
Oil majors , including Exxon Mobil , Chevron and BP , were sharply lower , as were service providers Haliburton and Schlumberger .
Elsewhere , travel - related names remained under pressure after Dr. Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , warned Americans with underlying conditions not to take long plane trips or cruises due to the new coronavirus outbreak .
Drugmakers working on treatments for COVID-19 , including Inovio Pharmaceuticals and BioCryst Pharmaceuticals , opened sharply higher before turning lower .
U.S. Treasurys were the beneficiary of the flight to safety with heavy buying pushing longer - dated yields lower by more than 30 basis points .
Overnight , the benchmark 10 - year yield fell to a record low of 0.38 percent before bouncing to 0.501 percent at the close .
Likewise , the 30 - year yield plunged below 1 percent for the first time ever , and was down 27.8 basis points to 0.938 percent .
The drop in Treasury yields accompanies expectations the Federal Reserve will cut rates by 100 basis points at its March 18 meeting , lowering its key interest rate to a range between 0 and 25 basis points .
The expectation of the oversized rate cut is putting pressure on financials , which typically make 50 percent to 75 percent of their net revenue from the spread between the interest paid to depositors and the interest charged to borrowers .
Lower rates mean the banks will make less per loan .
J.P. Morgan Chase , Bank of America and Truist were all tumbling .
Meanwhile , Wells Fargo was in focus after board chair Betsy Duke resigned .
In Europe , Italy ’s MIB was down 11.5 percent after the country ’s government on Sunday put 16 million people in the northern region of the country on lockdown in an effort to prevent the spread of COVID-19 .
Elsewhere , in the region , France 's was lower by 8 percent while Germany 's DAX and Britain ’s FTSE were both off 7.9 percent .
Overnight , Japan ’s Nikkei paced the decline in Asia after the country ’s government lowered its fourth - quarter gross domestic product to an annualized drop of 7.1 percent , down from 6.3 percent .
Taking inflation into account , the drop was 1.8 percent on a seasonally adjusted quarterly basis .
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE ON FOX BUSINESS
Meanwhile , China ’s trade surplus swung to a $ 7.1 billion deficit – the first since March 2018 – in the first two months of the year .
China ’s Shanghai Composite fell 3 percent and Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng shed 4.2 percent .
Related Articles

An Iowa girl was blinded and almost killed by the flu. Now, she can see again. .
2020-03-09 13:59:28 +00:00 .
DES MOINES , Iowa – An Iowa girl blinded after complications from the flu has regained her eyesight months after she nearly died in the hospital , her mother says .
Jade DeLucia , 4 , spent Christmas fighting to survive after a case of the flu hospitalized her and caused seizures and swelling in her brain that blinded her .
But weeks after leaving the hospital , Jade can see again .
" She was following people around , she was giving high fives , and it was awesome , " her mother Amanda Phillips told KCRG - TV .
Phillips told CNN that family members noticed Jade had regained her sight when she walked to the bathroom by herself without touching the walls .
Her family then asked her where he uncle was , and she walked toward him .
More on Jade : Flu blinds , nearly kills 4 - year - old girl : ' There were no warning signs , ' mom says " From there , it was almost an instant thing , " Phillips told CNN .
" She 's doing really good . "
Just a couple months ago , Jade 's family was n't sure if the young girl would survive the illness , let alone see again .
At 8 a.m. on Christmas Eve , the girls ' father , Stephen , went to wake her and her sister and found Jade unresponsive .
Jade had felt sick for a few days with a low - grade fever and a runny nose , but nothing that caused alarm .
" It was a flip of a switch ; there were no warning signs , " Phillips said in January .
Before coronavirus : Seattle was under siege by the deadliest flu in history .
Here 's what life was like .
The family rushed Jade to Covenant Medical Center , where she tested positive for the flu in the emergency room .
Jade received a flu shot in March of 2019 , but was n't vaccinated this season .
A nurse treating Jade asked Phillips and her husband whether they were sure their daughter was n't faking .
A few minutes later , Jade had a seizure .
Hospital staff used a crash cart to revive her .
Phillips said it took about four hours to stabilize her daughter enough that she could be flown to the University of Iowa Stead Family Children 's Hospital .
" It was terrifying .
I thought we were going to lose her , " she said .
The episodes of seizure - like shaking continued .
After four days , doctors said the influenza had traveled to her brain , causing swelling .
Coronavirus is spreading in the US :
Here 's everything to know , from symptoms to how to protect yourself
" We could have lost her so many times , and with the brain damage that we were seeing on the MRI scan of her brain , we did n't think any part of her was really going to come back , " Phillips said .
Phillips said at the time that doctors told her Jade may regain her sight in three to six months .
Still , Phillips said she was just happy to have her daughter home .
Dr. Theresa Czech at University of Iowa Stead Family Children ’s Hospital told KCRG - TV that Jade has since made " a good recovery . "
" She 's such a bright , cheerful girl who 's full of love , " the doctor told the TV station .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Flu blinded Iowa girl after brain swelling .
Now she can see again .

China signals progress in virus battle as Disney partially reopens .
2020-03-09 07:05:17 +00:00 .
China closed several makeshift hospitals for coronavirus patients , some schools reopened and Disney resort staff went back to work Monday as normality slowly returns to the country after weeks battling the epidemic .
New virus cases in China -- which accounts for the vast majority of the more than 100,000 infections worldwide -- have declined in recent weeks in a sign the country 's unprecedented lockdown measures are working .
The improving situation stands in stark contrast with the growing global spread of the disease that has affected scores of countries and prompted some governments to impose their own draconian measures and quarantines .
China reported 40 new infections nationwide on Monday -- the smallest increase since the country began reporting the data in January .
Nearly all the fresh cases and 22 new deaths were in Wuhan , the capital of central Hubei province , which has been under lockdown for weeks .
The latest fatalities bring the country 's death toll to 3,119 .
A senior official hinted last week that China could soon lift the travel restrictions on Hubei , which has effectively kept about 56 million people housebound .
Around 19,000 people are still getting treatment for the virus , down from a high of 58,000 on February 24 .
Shanghai Disney said it was reopening its shopping and entertainment Disneytown zone -- plus a park and hotel in the same complex -- in the " first step of a phased reopening " .
The Disneyland amusement park , however , remains closed .
In Wuhan , 11 of 16 makeshift hospitals that were converted from public facilities including stadiums and schools were shuttered by Sunday , the official Xinhua news agency reported .
Two of the most recent makeshift hospitals that closed -- a converted sports centre and a factory -- had enough capacity for nearly 2,000 people at a time and discharged their last 61 patients on Sunday , Xinhua said .
Hubei Airport Group ordered all airports in the province to get back to work by Thursday , in a sign that the province is preparing to resume flights .
Wuhan 's Tianhe airport -- which suspended flights on January 23 except for airlifts for foreigners -- said Monday that some of its managers had already resumed work .
- Ikea , schools reopen - Swedish furniture giant Ikea has reopened 16 of its stores with shorter opening hours in China , after closing all outlets in the country in late January , the company said .
Meanwhile , some regions are gearing up to reopen schools this week , after more than a month of closures across the country .
Qinghai province , spread across the Tibetan Plateau , announced in late February that high schools and vocational schools would resume gradually from Monday .
Middle schools would reopen later in the month .
Mountainous Guizhou province in southwest China has also said some students in high school and middle school would resume classes from March 16 .
The only new cases outside Hubei were four imported from overseas , the health commission said , bringing the total number of infections brought into the country to 67 .
The rise in imported cases is fueling fears that the country 's progress in bringing infections down could be undone , and several local authorities are imposing quarantines on those arriving from hard - hit areas .
New virus cases in China -- which accounts for the vast majority of the more than 100,000 infections worldwide -- have declined in recent weeks in a sign the country 's unprecedented lockdown measures
are working

Coronavirus Italy latest: easyJet cancelling many flights into north and central parts following lockdown .
2020-03-09 05:56:20 +00:00 .
Budget airline easyJet is cancelling a number of flights to and from central and northern Italy after more than a quarter of the country ’s population was put in lockdown .
About 16 million people are under the heavy restrictions imposed by the Italian government until April 3 as the infection rate of Covid-19 continues to rise .
Italy has registered more cases of coronavirus than any country outside China while its death toll has risen to 366 .
British authorities are advising against all but essential travel to large swathes of the country .
The Foreign Office advice covers the Lombardy region , including the cities of Milan , Bergamo and Como , and the provinces of Modena , Parma , Piacenza , Reggio Emilia and Rimini – all in the Emilia Romagna region .
Also included are Pesaro and Urbino in the Marche region ; Alessandria , Asti , Novara , Verbano - Cusio - Ossola and Vercelli in the Piemonte region ; and Padova , Treviso and Venice in the Veneto region .
On Sunday evening , easyJet announced several flights to or from these destinations would be cancelled on Monday .
The company said in light of the lockdown in Italy , it would be reviewing its flying programme to Milan Malpensa , Milan Linate , Venice and Verona airports from now until April 3 .
“ In the short - term we will be cancelling a number of flights to and from these destinations on Monday 9 March , ” it said .
It said passengers on affected flights would receive an email or text message and offered either a full refund or the option of changing their flights .
The airline added : “ We expect to continue to reduce the number of flights in and out of Milan Malpensa , Milan Linate , Venice and Verona airports in the period up to April 3 and will provide a further update on our schedule in due course . ”
British Airways said on Sunday it was not planning to ground flights .
“ There are no current travel restrictions or updates for airlines flying to and from Italy , ” the airline said .
It said customers with flights to or from northern Italy – specifically Milan , Turin , Bologna , Venice , Bergamo and Verona – could rebook to a later date not beyond May 31 .
BA added : “ We are monitoring the situation closely and we will continue to liaise with government and global health authority and follow their advice . ”
Ryanair has also not said it is planning to cancel any routes , saying instead : “ We are following guidelines issued by the Italian government and the World Health Organisation . ”
The extraordinary measures put in place across central and northern Italy include the closure of museums , cultural institutions and the suspension of all public gatherings and social events , including pubs , nightclubs and games halls .
Religious ceremonies and funerals have been suspended , and ski facilities in the affected mountain areas are closed .
More widely across Italy , museums , including in the Vatican , are closed and all sporting fixtures must be played behind closed doors .
Childcare facilities , schools and universities are closed until March 15 .
The FCO said public and social gatherings in the country should be avoided with cinemas , pubs and clubs closed , while restaurants and bars remain open with reduced seating .
PA Media contributed to this article
Read more
Man in his 60s becomes third to die of coronavirus in UK
Watch as Ronaldo ' high - fives ' imaginary fans before Juventus vs Inter Quarter of Italians living under coronavirus quarantine- live
Italy 's coronavirus death toll leaps to 366 UK virus toll soars to 273 as cases leap by a third in 24 hours

Three fresh coronavirus cases in Victoria .
2020-03-09 04:05:24 +00:00 .
Three new coronavirus cases have been confirmed in Victoria , taking the state 's total to 15 and prompting a special meeting of cabinet ministers .
The spike in cases comes as Victorian Health Minister Jenny Mikakos insists medical professionals have her support , despite not apologising to an infected doctor whom she chided for going to work .
Authorities confirmed on Monday that two of the most recent COVID-19 cases are returned travellers from the United States , while another came from Iran .
Premier Daniel Andrews ' security and emergency management cabinet committee will meet on Tuesday morning to discuss the state 's coronavirus preparations .
Victoria has not yet had a coronavirus case transmitted locally , but Ms Mikakos expects that will happen .
The most serious of the latest cases is a woman in her 50s who returned from Tehran via Kuala Lumpar on flight MH0149 , arriving on Friday .
She became unwell in Tehran on February 18 with a cough , fever and shortness of breath .
She 's now is isolation in hospital and being treated for pneumonia .
A man and woman who travelled separately from the US are recovering in home isolation .
The man in his 50s was on flight UA60 on February 29 and has a very mild illness .
Before he was diagnosed , he visited Wine by Sam at Seymour on March 3 for a tour and lunch , then attended Cinema Nova at Carlton on Thursday from 7.30pm to 10.30pm for a private screening of The Amber Light .
The second traveller from America is a woman in her 20s who arrived from Colorado on flight QF94 from Los Angeles to Melbourne on Friday .
Victoria 's Chief Health Officer Dr Brett Sutton says despite the new cases , it was still safe to hold major events including this weekend 's Formula One Grand Prix .
The cases come after general practitioner Chris Higgins was the 11th Victorian to test positive - after treating more than 70 patients while having what he thought was a mild cold .
Ms Mikakos said on Saturday she was flabbergasted the doctor continued to treat patients .
Her comments caused the Australian Medical Association and Dr Higgins to demand an apology , given he followed official clinical guidelines for the virus .
The minister says she " wo n't make any apology for putting the public health of Victorians first " .
But she said medical professions can rest assured she " absolutely " has their backs .
Victorian Opposition Leader Michael O'Brien said Ms Mikakos " stuffed up " and lost the confidence of the medical profession when the state needs them more than ever .

China sends medical team to Iraq to help tackle coronavirus epidemic .
2020-03-08 15:23:47 +00:00 .
China sent a team disease control experts to Iraq over the weekend and contributed US$ 20 million to the World Health Organisation as part of its contribution to global efforts to contain the coronavirus epidemic .
The team , comprising seven specialists from the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention , arrived in Baghdad on Saturday night and are expected to stay in Iraq for one month to help with testing , treatment and follow - up care of patients , state news agency Xinhua reported on Sunday , quoting team leader Tao Zhongquan .
Last month , Beijing sent a medical team to Iran , the country worst - hit in the Middle East , with more than 6,566 cases and 194 fatalities from Covid-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus .
So far , 54 cases of the coronavirus have been confirmed in Iraq , of whom four have died , according to the Iraqi Ministry of Health .
“ The arrival of Chinese experts and medical equipment will enhance prevention and control of the coronavirus epidemic in Iraq , ” Xinhua quoted deputy Iraqi health minister Jassim al - Falahi as saying .
According to the Red Cross Society of China , which is acting on behalf of Beijing , a shipment of diagnostic kits , medical supplies , and traditional Chinese medicine was also sent to Iraq .
Despite criticism over its initial slow response to contain the outbreak , which started in the central Chinese city of Wuhan , Beijing has repeatedly pledged to work with the WHO and other countries to tackle the outbreak .
With the epidemic at home appearing to have peaked , Chinese President Xi Jinping told a meeting of top Communist Party leaders that China would “ deepen its international cooperation in containing the outbreak and demonstrate itself to be a responsible major power ” .
WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus announced Beijing ’s US$ 20 million contribution after meeting Chen Xu , China ’s top envoy to the United Nations Office at Geneva , on Saturday .
Tedros said the WHO would continue to strengthen coordination and cooperation with China to push for greater international cooperation on epidemic prevention and control .
Chen said Beijing was willing to contribute to international cooperation on Covid-19 prevention and control , and help developing countries with vulnerable public health systems respond effectively to the epidemic , according to Xinhua .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article China sends medical team to Iraq to help tackle coronavirus epidemic first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

China activist who called Xi clueless on coronavirus faces years in jail for 'subversion' .
2020-03-08 05:08:35 +00:00 .
A prominent Chinese activist detained for criticising President Xi Jinping ’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak is being held on a state security charge that carry a maximum sentence of 15 years in jail , his friends said on Sunday .
Xu Zhiyong , a former law lecturer and founder of the social campaign New Citizens Movement , was taken away by police on 15 February during a fresh crackdown on freedom of speech precipitated by the coronavirus crisis .
Xu ’s family found out from Beijing police on Saturday that he has been held in secret detention on the charge of “ inciting subversion of state power ” and has been denied access to a lawyer , according to friends Teng Biao , a legal academic , and fellow activist Hua Ze .
Related : Chinese activist detained after calling Xi Jinping ' clueless ' on coronavirus crisis
They said Xu had been placed in “ residential surveillance at a designated location ” – a form of solitary detention that can last up to six months in an unknown location without lawyer or family access .
Many human rights lawyers who have been held in this form of secret detention were tortured for months before being formally charged and jailed on state security crimes .
Xu published an essay last month , which called on Xi to resign for what he saw as his lack of ability to govern China , citing the coronavirus crisis and the mishandling of the Hong Kong pro - democracy protests .
“ You did n’t authorise the truth to be released , and the outbreak turned into a national disaster , ” Xu wrote .
“ Whenever you face looming crisis , you ’re clueless … Mr Xi Jinping , please step down . ”
Teng , now based in the US , fears that Xu ’s detention will end in a lengthy jail term , because he has previously been jailed and the authorities tend to punish repeated offenders harshly .
Xu , who started activism in 2003 with Teng as PhD graduates , was jailed in January 2014 for four years on the charge of “ assembling a crowd to disrupt order in a public place ” after writing an open letter critical of Xi and for staging protests for equal rights for migrant children and official transparency over private assets .
“ Judging from previous cases , authorities tend to hand down much heavier sentences for people jailed before .
And his charge this time is a much more serious than before , we worry he will be heavily sentenced , ” Teng said .
A staff member at the Dongxiaokou police station in Beijing , which is responsible for Xu ’s case , refused to answer questions by phone on Sunday .

'Flabbergasted': Melbourne doctor with coronavirus symptoms continued seeing patients .
2020-03-07 01:29:14 +00:00 .
Victorian health authorities are trying to contact about 70 patients of a Melbourne doctor who has developed coronavirus after returning from the US
The doctor is the state ’s 11th case of the novel coronavirus and the state health minister , Jenny Mikakos , says he attended work and treated patients after her was symptomatic .
Related : Coronavirus latest updates : race to trace dozens of patients of sick doctor in Australia
“ I have to say I am flabbergasted that a doctor that has flulike symptoms has presented to work , ” Mikakos said .
“ He became unwell with a runny nose on an internal flight from Denver to San Francisco on February 27 , US time , then flew to from San Francisco to Melbourne on United Airlines flight UA60 , arriving at approximately 9.30am Saturday 29 February . ”
The doctor saw approximately 70 patients last week between Monday 2 March and Friday 6 March at the Toorak Clinic on Malvern Road .
The clinic has been since closed .
Patients have been contacted by text message , phone or email and two patients the doctor treated in a Malvern nursing home have been isolated .
All patients the doctor saw and all clinic staff have been asked to self - isolate for 14 days .
The clinic ’s other patients have been asked to monitor their symptoms .
“ Our advice to the community is that if you have returned from overseas and are experiencing colder flulike symptoms than please stay home , do not go to work , you should self isolate until such time as you are able to be presenting to a doctor , getting medical advice about whether you potentially have Covid-19 , ” Mikakos said .
“ I understand our medical and healthcare workers are dedicated to the work they do .
It is incredibly important work and they are absolutely committed to their patients and I understand , particularly at this time of , I guess , an international health emergency , that all healthcare workers would be wanting to assist their patients .
But it is irresponsible for people to be going to work if they are unwell , and that is not just healthcare workers , it is everybody in the community who needs to take this very seriously . ”
She said the doctor ’s symptoms were mild , as 80 % of coronavirus cases had been globally , but that his decision to continue to treat patients was something for the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency to pursue .
“ It is very important that what may present as a mild case is still taken seriously , because we know this is a disease , a virus that is easily transmitting in the community , as we have seen from the fact that we now have more than 100,000 cases internationally , and it is important that we are all alive to the risks . ”
Passengers on the flight with the doctor would also be contacted , Mikakos said , but added there were no other public exposure sites for the case .
The minister urged those who believed they may have been on the flight to call the 1800 657 398 hotline .
She said Victoria had not yet had a case of community transmission of Covid-19 .
Victoria ’s chief medical officer , Dr Brett Sutton , urged people to get tested immediately if they suspected they had coronavirus rather than going to work with cold - like symptoms .
“ We have all done [ that ] in the past .
We are now at the stage with this illness that we have a particular obligation , and we have a particular obligation as healthcare workers , to exclude ourselves until we can assure a patients that we are not a risk to them , ” he said .
“ We can turn test around within 24 hours , so you should not feel shy about getting tested so you can reassure yourself about returning to work . ”

Coronavirus: Facebook closes London offices after employee diagnosed .
2020-03-06 18:23:39 +00:00 .
Facebook is closing its three London offices and telling staff to work from home after an employee was diagnosed with COVID-19 .
The number of coronavirus cases worldwide has now passed 100,000 , according to Johns Hopkins University , as the outbreak intensifies .
There have been 47 new cases of coronavirus confirmed in the UK over the last 24 hours , taking the total number to 163 , with two deaths .
A Facebook employee who was normally based in Singapore was diagnosed with the virus after visiting the company 's London offices between 24 - 26 February , a spokesperson told Sky News .
Facebook has just over 3,000 employees in London .
Sky News was unable to learn how many individuals had been in direct contact with the person who was diagnosed , but Facebook said that the company had been in contact with them all .
These individuals are being asked to self - isolate and be vigilant in monitoring whether they develop symptoms . COVID-19 , the disease caused by coronavirus , is believed to gestate for up to two weeks before symptoms develop .
The company is now also reaching out to any employees and contingent workers based in other offices that visited London over the past few days to warn them .
In a statement , a spokesperson for Facebook told Sky News : " An employee based in our Singapore office who has been diagnosed with COVID-19 visited our London offices 24 - 26 February 2020 .
" We are therefore closing our London offices until Monday for deep cleaning and employees are working from home until then . "
It follows another diagnosis of a Facebook worker in Seattle , prompting the company to close its offices there in order to handle the risk posed to other staff .
On Thursday , a woman reported to be in her 70s became the first person in the UK to die after being diagnosed with coronavirus .
The Royal Berkshire Hospital in Reading said the woman had been " in and out of hospital " for other reasons but was admitted on Wednesday evening and tested positive .
Meanwhile , two British Airways staff tested positive for coronavirus on Friday and are recovering at home in isolation .
" Public Health England ( PHE ) has confirmed that two members of our staff have tested positive for the COVID-19 virus , " it said in a statement .

Coronavirus: Two teenagers arrested over 'racially motivated attack' on London's Oxford Street .
2020-03-06 15:05:51 +00:00 .
Two teenagers have been arrested on suspicion of racially assaulting a Singaporean man following the coronavirus outbreak .
Jonathan Mok , 23 , from Singapore , claimed he was set upon by a group of men and a woman as he walked along Oxford Street in central London on February 24 .
On Friday , the Metropolitan Police said two male suspects , aged 15 and 16 , were held for alleged racially aggravated assault following the incident and have now been released under investigation .
See latest coronavirus news and updates
Meanwhile , the Met has released CCTV images of a further two males they wish to speak to in connection with the incident .
Police are seeking to speak to this man .
( Met Police )
More
Officers were called to Oxford Street , near Tottenham Court Road station at around 9.15pm on Monday , February 24 to reports of a man being assaulted .
The 23 - year - old victim was punched , kicked , and sustained facial injuries .
Read more : Coronavirus quarantine shows climate change ' is solvable ' , Extinction Rebellion says Mr Mok wrote on Facebook that he was set upon by a group of men and a woman as he walked along the busy shopping street .
The Singaporean national , who has been studying in London for two years , said one of the group shouted “ coronavirus ” as they walked past him .
Jonathan Mok , 23 , was attacked on Oxford Street in London .
( Facebook / Jonathan Mok )
More Mr Mok described how , as he turned to face the group , one of the men said : “ Do n’t you dare look at me ” , before attacking him .
The student said : “ All of a sudden , the first punch was swung at my face and took me by surprise .
When I was still shocked by the first hit , the guy delivered the second sucker punch .
Read more : Police issue warning over coronavirus phishing scam
“ By then , a few passers - by had stopped and one of them tried to reason with them that four on one was not fair .
The attacker ’s friend tried to swing a kick at me as I was explaining to the passer - by that I had n’t done anything at all .
“ I tried to react in self - defence but could n’t do anything substantial because I was still recovering from a broken finger in my master hand .
A branch of Miss Selfridge , a brand from the Arcadia group , in Oxford Street , central London .
Picture dated : Wednesday June 6 , 2019 .
Photo credit should read : Isabel Infantes / EMPICS Entertainment .
More
“ The guy who tried to kick me then said ‘ I do n’t want your coronavirus in my country ’ , before swinging another sucker punch at me , which resulted in my face exploding with blood ( from my nose ) , where the blood was splattered all across the pavement . ”
Detective Sergeant Emma Kirby , who is leading the case , said : “ This attack left the victim shaken and hurt .
There ’s no room on our streets for this kind of violent behaviour and we are committed to finding the perpetrators .
“ I am keen to speak to anyone who has information about this assault .
I would like to identify and speak to the males pictured who may be able to help me with our enquiries . ”
Enquiries continue .
Witnesses are asked to call police on 101 quoting CAD 7522/24FEB .
---Watch the latest videos from Yahoo UK---

Investors Withdraw Most Cash From U.S. Credit Funds in a Decade .
2020-03-05 22:47:32 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Investors withdrew $ 12.2 billion from U.S. funds that buy corporate bonds and loans , the biggest weekly total in at least a decade , as the spreading coronavirus battered markets globally .
High - grade bond funds saw $ 4.8 billion of outflows in the week ended March 4 , according to Refinitiv Lipper .
Junk - bond funds had $ 5.1 billion withdrawn , while leveraged loan investors pulled $ 2.29 billion during the period .
The outflows represented the largest combined total in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to January 2010 .
Investors have pulled back from credit as worries intensify that the spreading virus will slash economic growth and crimp corporate cash flows .
A widely followed derivatives index that measures risk in U.S. credit markets has surged in the past two weeks as investors rushed to hedge against losses .
The market turmoil shut the U.S. investment - grade bond market for six straight days before reopening this week , and lending in the junk - bond and leveraged loan markets has slowed to a trickle .
The withdrawal from investment - grade funds was the biggest since May 2019 , a period that was chalked up to an internal transfer between Fidelity Investment funds , rather than a pullback by investors .
Excluding that , it was the largest outflow for the funds since December 2015 .
The outflow from junk - bond funds , the biggest since March 2017 , followed a $ 4.2 billion withdrawal the prior period .
( Adds scope of the combined outflows starting in headline . )
--With assistance from Michael Gambale and Rizal Tupaz .
To contact the reporters on this story : Andrew Kostic in New York at akostic@bloomberg.net;Molly Smith in New York at msmith604@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Nikolaj Gammeltoft at ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net , Shannon D. Harrington
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Asia Stocks to Slide; Bonds Soar on Virus Worries: Markets Wrap .
2020-03-05 22:24:18 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Asian stocks looked primed for heavy losses after U.S. equities tumbled with Treasury yields on renewed worries about the impact of the coronavirus .
Gold surged with the yen and the Swiss franc .
Equity futures declined more than 2 % in Japan and Australia .
The SP 500 Index fell more than 3 % , with investor confidence shaken as virus cases continued to rise across the U.S. despite efforts to contain the outbreak and its impact .
The yield on 10 - year Treasuries slumped to as low as 0.90 % and Australian equivalents tracked those moves Friday , plumbing fresh all - time lows .
“ All we know now is that we do n’t really understand what ’s going to happen next , ” Michael Shaoul , chairman and CEO of Marketfield Asset Managenment LLC , told Bloomberg TV .
“ It ’s probably four , six , eight weeks before we ’re going to have any useful information as to what the trajectory of the virus is and what the actual economic fallout looks like . ”
Risk assets have whipsawed this week , with traders on edge amid a rise in virus cases , governments extending quarantines and travel restrictions , and a slew of company warnings on the impact to earnings .
Global equities have recovered some of the recent losses but still remain about 10 % below the all - time high reached last month .
Still , some saw an opportunity in the sell - off .
Action from central banks and governments will counter the economic hit from the virus , according to JPMorgan Chase Co. strategists who had previously been telling clients to trim risky bets .
The team advised boosting equity holdings .
Elsewhere , oil retreated as uncertainty loomed over whether Russia would agree to OPEC ’s proposal for a large production cut .
Gold surged more than 2 % .
These are the main moves in markets :
Stocks
The SP 500 Index dropped 3.4%.Futures on Japan ’s Nikkei 225 fell 2.4%.Hang Seng futures retreated 1%.Futures on Australia ’s SP / ASX 200 Index lost 2.1 % .
Currencies
The yen rose 1.4 % to 106.09 per dollar .
The offshore yuan fell 0.3 % to 9.442 per dollar .
The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index declined 0.4%.The euro climbed 0.9 % to $ 1.1233 .
Bonds
The yield on 10 - year Treasuries sank 14 basis points to 0.91%.Australia ’s 10 - year yield retreated four basis points to 0.74 % .
Commodities West Texas Intermediate crude fell 1.7 % at $ 45.98 a barrel .
Gold strengthened 2 % to $ 1,669.98 an ounce .
--With assistance from Jonathan Ferro , Randall Jensen and Vildana Hajric .
To contact the reporter on this story : Adam Haigh in Sydney at ahaigh1@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Christopher Anstey at canstey@bloomberg.net , Cormac Mullen
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

NSW virus cases more than doubles in week .
2020-03-05 20:47:26 +00:00 .
The number of coronavirus cases in NSW has more than doubled in a week after a Sydney high school was shut down after a Year 11 student tested positive .
Almost 1,200 pupils at Epping Boys High School have been affected by a state government decision to impose a 14 - day quarantine period , meaning students and school staff should stay at home .
" I implore parents not to panic but to make sure your child stays home , " NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard said on Friday .
" The young fellow ...
he is not bad , but he is not well . "
Some 25 people have been diagnosed with COVID-19 so far , including a Goulburn man who returned from Singapore and travelled to Darwin , up from about nine confirmed cases last week .
" So it 's almost tripled just in a week , " Mr Hazzard told Nine 's Today show .
" Out of those 25 , I think we have nine now who - nine who have actually been infected on our soil rather than coming in from overseas .
" And that means that we are getting an increasing number of people who are passing that on - transmitting it - on NSW soil . "
Meanwhile , 17 children are being tested after they visited a Sydney aged care facility after an elderly female resident , 95 , died earlier this week and was later found to have been infected with the virus .
The children from Banksia Cottage childcare centre had visited residents at the nearby Dorothy Henderson Lodge at Macquarie Park on February 24 .
Two other residents , aged 82 and 70 , have also been infected after an aged care nurse working at the facility tested positive for COVID-19 .
NSW Chief Medical Officer Dr Kerry Chant has warned more residents could be diagnosed with the virus .
Dr Chant also told aged care facilities to stop hosting children from child care centres to reduce the risk of infection for Australia 's most elderly and frail .
Elsewhere , Mr Hazzard said two Sydney doctors who have the virus attended the same medical workshop on February 18 , alongside about 70 other medical professionals .
The doctors , from Ryde and Liverpool hospitals , are so far the only ones who are sick from that group , and 14 days have passed , giving authorities hope that no one else has been infected .

'Just not right': Trump slammed for criticising Obama in face of outrage over false coronavirus comments .
2020-03-05 20:06:47 +00:00 .
Amid the coronavirus outbreak , Speaker Nancy Pelosi is calling Donald Trump 's contention that Barack Obama 's administration shut down a White House team focused on countering global pandemics " just not right . "
The California Democrat on Thursday listed a number of virus - related matters on which her caucus wants more answers from the administration after top Trump aides , including Vice President Mike Pence , briefed them on Wednesday .
She also criticised Mr Trump for a string of misleading and false statements about the coronavirus outbreak .
" That 's just not right , " she said at the top of her weekly press conference .
She spent several minutes defending the Democratic Obama administration over a remark Mr Trump made Wednesday during a meeting with airline executives who came to the White House eager for Mr Trump and his health team to avoid urging people to forego air travel .
" The Obama administration made a decision on testing that turned out to be very detrimental to what we 're doing , " the president said on Wednesday .
" And we undid that decision a few days ago so that the testing can take place in a much more rapid and accurate fashion . "
No federal health or White House official has been able to pinpoint just what rule the president was referencing .
Ms Pelsoi noted the lack of corroboration .
She read a quote from the office of Senate Health , Education , Labor , and Pensions Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander in which , in her words , saying " there was no such rule change . "
In fact , it was the Trump administration in May 2018 that nixed a National Security Council team led by Navy Rear Adm. Timothy Ziemer that was charged with a number of public health matters , including pandemics .
The national security health team was axed as part of a NSC shakeup orchestrated by former national security adviser John Bolton , whom Trump fired last year over policy disagreements over Syria , Iran , North Korea and other hotspots .
Mr Trump frequently blames missteps on others , especially Democrats , and has yet to admit a major mistake on the federal coronavirus response .
But he is eager to soak in any credit that might boost his re - election bid .
" With approximately 100,000 CoronaVirus cases worldwide , and 3,280 deaths , the United States , because of quick action on closing our borders , has , as of now , only 129 cases ( 40 Americans brought in ) and 11 deaths , " the president tweeted Thursday as new cases were announced on US soil .
" We are working very hard to keep these numbers as low as possible ! "
Minutes later , about a mile away on Capitol Hill , Ms Pelosi said she is pleased " the reality is in the public domain , " referring to how the White House pandemic team was shut down .
She also called on officials to work at " recognising we were on a path that was not working " while also putting more effort into " not blaming others . "
In yet another sign of just how little the two parties agree on , Ms Pelosi defended the Obama administration 's handling of the ebola crisis , calling it " picture perfect " and applauding Mr Trump 's predecessor 's decision then to " put scientists in place so we could really evaluate the epidemiology . "
But back in 2014 , citizen Trump was a frequent critic of how Mr Obama responded to that outbreak .
In a 28 October tweet that year , the then - New York real estate executive and reality television host tweeted this : " President Obama strongly considering a plan to bring non - U.S. citizens with Ebola to the United States for treatment .
Now I know he 's nuts ! "

Coronavirus: England v Italy Six Nations match in Rome postponed .
2020-03-05 09:52:00 +00:00 .
England 's Six Nations game against Italy in Rome has been postponed over coronavirus fears , PA news agency understands .
It was previously thought the 14 March clash could be played behind closed doors after the Italian government ordered all sporting events to be held without fans .
Official confirmation from the Six Nations organisers is expected later today .
More than 3,000 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Italy and 107 have died , making it the worst - hit European country .
On Wednesday , the country 's government announced all schools and universities would be closed until 15 March and 11 towns in northern Italy are on lockdown .
Next week 's Six Nations game is the second involving Italy 's team to be affected by COVID-19 .
This weekend 's rugby match between Ireland and Italy , due to be held in Dublin , had already been called off .
Ireland 's Public Health Emergency team said the fixture would be " a significant risk because a very large number of people would be travelling from what is now an affected region " .
Former England coach Clive Woodward has urged organisers to call off the tournament .
In a sports column for the Daily Mail , he wrote : " There are some things much more important than sport and when something like the coronavirus comes along , rugby has to step into line , take advice from the experts and do what is right . "
It is not yet clear whether the remaining Six Nations clashes are under threat .
The England side have won two and lost one of their games so far and were due to be playing their final match .
More follows ...

Cruise ship linked to coronavirus death held off coast of San Francisco .
2020-03-05 04:29:37 +00:00 .
A cruise ship linked to the first death from coronavirus in California is being held off the coast of San Francisco , with 21 people on board reporting possible symptoms .
The death of a 71 - year - old man on Wednesday was the first US fatality reported outside of Washington state , bringing the total number of deaths to 11 and prompting the California governor to declare a state of emergency .
The state is battling the virus on multiple fronts with 53 confirmed cases .
The man who died was one of three individuals who tested positive for coronavirus after traveling on a roundtrip Grand Princess cruise from San Francisco to Mexico last month .
After the ship docked in San Francisco on 21 February , thousands more passengers boarded and thousands disembarked .
The vessel then began a roundtrip voyage to Hawaii .
Related : Coronavirus : US death toll hits 11 as California reports first fatality
On the return leg of the Hawaii trip , 11 passengers and 10 crew members reported flu - like symptoms , Gavin Newsom , California ’s governor , said in a news conference .
One additional crew member who had served on the Mexico trip was medically disembarked in Hawaii with flu - like symptoms and tested negative for coronavirus , according to San Francisco public health officials .
The ship was scheduled to arrive in San Francisco on Wednesday night , but officials requested that it delay its return while the US coast guard and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention coordinated testing .
The plan was for the ship to remain in international waters off the coast of California while a helicopter flew tests on board and then returned the samples to a laboratory for testing .
In addition to the 21 people reporting flu - like symptoms , officials planned to test the 62 passengers from the Mexico trip who remained on board for the Hawaii journey , as well as an unknown number of crew .
Those guests were instructed by the cruise line to stay in their staterooms until they were cleared by medical personnel .
By one estimate , more than 50 % of the passengers that disembarked from the cruise ship on 21 February were Californians , Newsom said , not including the crew .
In total the state and the CDC are working to track down about 2,500 people throughout the state who disembarked from the ship and could be at risk .
This was one of the factors that prompted Newsom to declare a state of emergency in California on Wednesday .
“ There ’s a number of people we ’re monitoring , ” he said .
“ We ’re going through that manifest and obviously the concern around people being on a tour that all travel together , not just on the ship , but were also transported together , highlights the need to focus with more acuity on those who may have been in closer contact with the individual who tragically passed away . ”
It is still unclear whether the passengers will be forced to remain on board like the passengers who were trapped on the coronavirus - infected cruise ship Diamond Princess for more than two weeks off the coast of Japan .

A passenger who was on a Princess cruise has died of the coronavirus in California. The ship is set to dock in San Francisco. .
2020-03-04 23:18:32 +00:00 .
Princess Cruises A coronavirus patient who had recently traveled on the Grand Princess cruise ship has died in California , and the ship is now headed for San Francisco .
The Grand Princess is expected to dock in the city on Thursday afternoon .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is investigating a " small cluster " of cases connected to the ship , according to a statement that the company , Princess Cruises , sent to passengers on Wednesday .
Instead of heading to Ensenada , Mexico , as scheduled , the ship is cutting its voyage short .
The Grand Princess is from the same line as the Diamond Princess , which hosted one of the largest outbreaks of the new coronavirus outside China .
More than 700 people who were on board the Diamond Princess tested positive for COVID-19 , the disease caused by the new virus .
The ship sat in the port of Yokohama , Japan , for weeks as the local government placed everyone on board under quarantine .
" The CDC is continuing to actively collect information and has set up a meeting with us this morning to determine what , if any , actions need to be taken during this cruise and on arrival in San Francisco , " the cruise line said on Wednesday .
" We have shared essential travel and health data with the CDC to facilitate their standard notification to the State and County health authorities to follow up with individuals who may have been exposed to people who became ill . "
It added : " We anticipate that further review of the situation will be necessary on arrival in San Francisco . "
The patient who died of the coronavirus in California was on the Grand Princess from February 11 to 21 .
At least one other confirmed coronavirus case in California — a person in Sonoma County — was on the cruise at the same time as the patient who died .
Some passengers still on board were also on that trip .
" For those guests who sailed with us on our previous voyage and may have been exposed , in an abundance of caution , the CDC requires you to remain in your stateroom until you have been contacted and cleared by our medical staff , " the company said .
It is not clear yet whether other passengers — those who were not on the previous voyage — were also asked to stay in their rooms .
Experts have criticized the way Japan 's government quarantined Diamond Princess passengers and crew on that ship .
" I admit , our isolation policy was not perfect , " Shigeru Omi , a health adviser to the Japanese government , said at a press conference on February 24 .
"
No place is perfect except in a hospital . "
It is not yet known what the CDC plans to do if more people on the Grand Princess test positive for COVID-19 .
The CDC did not immediately respond to a request for comment , nor did Princess Cruises .
" We are closely recording and monitoring all persons who have reported to the medical center with cold and flu symptoms during the voyage .
As a precaution , we are also conducting additional enhanced environmental disinfection onboard in addition to our regular stringent cleaning and sanitation protocols , " Princess Cruises said in its statement to passengers .
Read the original article on Business Insider

No time to release a film: latest Bond delayed on virus fears .
2020-03-04 18:06:09 +00:00 .
The makers of the new James Bond movie due for global release next month said on Wednesday it would be delayed until November amid fears over the new coronavirus outbreak .
The film , " No Time to Die " , had been set to have its premiere in London on March 31 , before its rollout worldwide in April .
" MGM , Universal and Bond producers , Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli , announced today that after careful consideration and thorough evaluation of the global theatrical marketplace , the release of NO TIME TO DIE will be postponed until November 2020 , " said a tweet from the official 007
Twitter account .
" The film will be released in the UK on November 12 , 2020 with worldwide release dates to follow , including the US launch on November 25 , 2020 . "
The postponement of the latest chapter in the legendary franchise came as concern over the COVID-19 epidemic continued to mount globally .
The virus has infected more than 93,000 people worldwide and killed more than 3,200 , mainly in China , with numerous countries struggling to contain its spread .
Some have begun to cancel events like football matches , carnivals , concerts and commercial gatherings such as the Geneva International Motor Show .
" No Time to Die " , the 25th instalment of the fictional British spy saga , sees Bond drawn out of retirement in Jamaica by his old friend and CIA agent Felix Leiter .
It is expected to be actor Daniel Craig 's last outing as 007 , after starring in four previous films .
The makers of the new James Bond film say its release is being put back to November from April due to the coronavirus outbreak

James Bond film No Time To Die delayed by seven months due to coronavirus .
2020-03-04 18:04:14 +00:00 .
The release date for new James Bond film No Time To Die has been pushed back seven months due to coronavirus .
The film , which will feature Daniel Craig in his final outing as 007 , was set to be released in UK cinemas from 2 April this year .
Earlier this week , fans had called for the release to be delayed as coronavirus spreads , with fan site MI6 , which claims to be the world 's most visited unofficial Bond website , saying public health should be put " above marketing release schedules " .
Now , in a statement on the official James Bond Twitter account , it has been announced the film will be pushed back to November .
" MGM , Universal and Bond producers , Michael G Wilson and Barbara Broccoli , announced today that after careful consideration and thorough evaluation of the global theatrical marketplace , the release of NO TIME TO DIE will be postponed until November 2020 , " the tweet said .
Stars had been expected to turn out for the world premiere of the film at the Royal Albert Hall in London on 31 March .
It will now be released in the UK on 12 November and the US on 25 November .
Bond fans have already endured an extended wait for the latest 007 film , with the release date pushed back after director Danny Boyle quit in 2018 .
After Boyle was replaced by Cary Joji Fukunaga , Fleabag creator Phoebe Waller - Bridge was also drafted in to improve the film 's script .
No Time To Die stars Lea Seydoux , Rami Malek , Lashana Lynch and Ana De Armas , alongside Craig , and finds Bond after he has left active service and is enjoying a tranquil life in Jamaica - until his old CIA friend Felix Leiter , played by Jeffrey Wright , turns up asking for help .
The Bond franchise is one of the entertainment world 's most lucrative , with 2015 's Spectre bringing in $ 880 million ( about £ 685 million ) at the box office worldwide , while Skyfall in 2012 grossed more than $ 1 billion ( about £ 779 million ) globally .
The delay comes as the UK experienced its biggest daily increase in coronavirus cases on Wednesday , with 87 people confirmed to have the virus .
More than 93,000 people have now been diagnosed worldwide , and more than 3,100 have died - the vast majority in China .
The Department of Health said three of the new cases in England contracted the virus in the UK , raising fears that community transmission may now be taking hold .
No Time To Die 's release is the latest in a string of major events being cancelled or postponed around the world .
Stormzy , Mariah Carey , Avril Lavigne and Green Day are among several music stars who have called off gigs .
Earlier on Wednesday , it was also announced that the London Book Fair , due to take place from 10 - 12 March , had been called off .
If the UK follows in the footsteps of other countries , large gatherings of people could be banned in the fight to contain the disease .
France has banned all public gatherings with more than 5,000 people in a confined space , while Switzerland has banned events of more than 1,000 people .

Next BoE governor Bailey sees coronavirus help for UK firms .
2020-03-04 17:12:01 +00:00 .
By David Milliken and Elizabeth Howcroft LONDON
( Reuters ) - Andrew Bailey , set to become Bank of England governor just as Britain is facing an economic hit from coronavirus , said financial support would probably have to be rushed out for companies struggling with disruption caused by the outbreak .
Investors have ramped up their bets that BoE will cut interest rates , possibly before the first scheduled policy announcement under Bailey on March 26 , as the spread of the virus takes its toll on the global economy and supply chains .
Bailey said the impact of coronavirus would be his top priority when he moves from his current job as head of the Financial Conduct Authority ( FCA ) regulator to replace Mark Carney as BoE governor on March 16 .
" I am not in any sense reducing the importance of monetary policy , ( but ) all the focus is on monetary policy , " Bailey told parliament 's Treasury Committee on Wednesday .
" I think it is quite reasonable to expect we are going to have to provide ... some form of supply chain finance in the not very distant future now to ensure that the effects of this shock from the virus are not damaging to many forms of activity . "
British finance minister Rishi Sunak is due to announce a budget statement on March 11 .
Business surveys have shown the disruption is starting to affect Britain 's economy as it led to a record increase in measures of delivery times for British manufacturers .
Bailey said smaller companies in particular would need support , and quickly .
On Tuesday , the U.S. Federal Reserve announced a surprise interest rate cut , raising speculation that the BoE and other central banks would follow suit .
The Bank of Canada cut rates as Bailey answered questions in parliament .
On monetary policy , Bailey echoed views expressed by top BoE officials , saying the central bank 's benchmark rate could be lowered to about 0.1 % from 0.75 % now , and that the BoE 's firepower was " uncomfortably close " to the average size of rate cuts deployed to counter past economic downturns .
PROUD ?
Bailey , a former BoE deputy governor with 30 years ' experience at the central bank , has been criticised in his current job for being too lenient on financial firms that engaged in misconduct .
He faced question after question - some of them pointed - about his record at the FCA from lawmakers on Wednesday .
" I am proud of what we have achieved .
I am not proud of some of the things that have happened during my time , " Bailey replied , saying the FCA 's powers were restricted by law .
When asked by the Treasury Committee 's chair Mel Stride if he was sufficiently nimble to head a major central bank , Bailey recalled how he helped prevent a collapse of Britain 's banking system over a decade ago when he was a senior BoE official .
" We had to do things in short order during that ( financial crisis ) period which were pretty unprecedented , absolutely unprecedented in the history of certainly the Bank , and we had to do them at short notice , " Bailey said .
Another lawmaker questioned if he would really " speak truth to power " and uphold the BoE 's independence from the government .
" Yes , " replied Bailey .
( Additional reporting by Paul Sandle , Sarah Young and Costas Pitas , writing by Andy Bruce ;
editing by William Schomberg / Mark Heinrich )

Coronavirus Attack: Police Release CCTV Of Group Wanted Over Attack On Singapore Student .
2020-03-04 12:33:16 +00:00 .
Detectives investigating a racist attack on a student by attackers shouting about coronavirus have released CCTV images of four men .
Jonathan Mok , 23 , originally from Singapore , after being set upon by a group of men and a woman as he walked along Oxford Street in central London on February 24 .
Violence erupted after the group passed Mok , who has been studying in the capital for two years , and one made a remark about coronavirus .
On Wednesday , the Metropolitan Police released CCTV images of four men they wish to speak to .
Detective Sergeant Emma Kirby said : “ This attack left the victim shaken and hurt .
There ’s no room on our streets for this kind of violent behaviour and we are committed to finding the perpetrators .
“ I am keen to speak to anyone who has information about this assault .
I would like to identify and speak to the four men pictured , who may be able to help me with our inquiries . ”
In his account of the assault , Mok described how , as he turned to face the group , one of the men said : “ Do n’t you dare look at me ” , before launching an attack .
The student said : “ All of a sudden , the first punch was swung at my face and took me by surprise .
When I was still shocked by the first hit , the guy delivered the second sucker punch .
“ By then , a few passers - by had stopped and one of them tried to reason with them that four on one was not fair .
“ The attacker ’s friend tried to swing a kick at me as I was explaining to the passer - by that I had n’t done anything at all .
“ I tried to react in self - defence but could n’t do anything substantial because I was still recovering from a broken finger in my master hand .
“ The guy who tried to kick me then said ‘ I do n’t want your coronavirus in my country ’ , before swinging another sucker punch at me , which resulted in my face exploding with blood from my nose , where the blood was splattered all across the pavement . ”
Any witnesses can call police on 101 , quoting CAD 7522 / feb24 .
Related ... '
Irresponsible ' Face Mask Ads Banned For ' Exploiting ' Coronavirus Fears Coronavirus Panic Is Even More Real
When You Have Hypochondria
How Boris Johnson ’s Expert Advisers On Coronavirus Won The Day
Coronavirus Latest : 5 Things You Should Know About The Covid-19 Outbreak This Morning Love HuffPost ?
Become a founding member of HuffPost Plus today .
This article originally appeared on HuffPost .

Coronavirus racist attack: Police release images of men wanted over student punched in the face .
2020-03-04 11:37:22 +00:00 .
Police have released images of four men wanted over a racist attack on a student who was allegedly beaten by attackers shouting about coronoavirus .
Jonathan Mok said he was walking along Oxford Street in central London on 24 February when he heard shouts of “ coronavirus ” .
The 23 - year - old student , from Singapore , described being set upon by a group of four or five men and a woman .
As he turned to face them , one man said “ do n't you dare look at me ” , before launching an attack .
Writing on Facebook , Mr Mok said passers - by tried to intervene as he was punched and kicked .
He added : “ The guy who tried to kick me then said , ' I do n't want your coronavirus in my country ' , before swinging another sucker punch at me , which resulted in my face exploding with blood from my nose , where the blood was splattered all across the pavement . ”
Police said Mr Mok , who has been living in London for two years , was punched , kicked , and sustained facial injuries .
The student said he was told he suffered fractures and may need surgery , adding : “ Racists constantly find excuses to expound their hatred - and in this current backdrop of the coronavirus , they 've found yet another excuse . ”
The attack was one of several alleged hate crimes linked to coronavirus in recent weeks , although the National Police Chiefs ' Council has said levels have remained steady and there was no obvious rise linked to the health emergency .
Tax consultant Pawat Silawattakun , 24 , was left with a broken nose when he was punched in the face and robbed in Fulham , west London , by teenagers who shouted “ coronavirus ” .
Trainee lawyer Meera Solanki , 29 , was punched unconscious after stepping in to defend her friend from a group of men hurling racist abuse about the illness in a Birmingham bar .
The Metropolitan Police said officers were called at around 9.15pm on 24 February to Oxford Street , near Tottenham Court Road station , to reports of the assault .
Detective Sergeant Emma Kirby said : “ This attack left the victim shaken and hurt .
There ’s no room on our streets for this kind of violent behaviour and we are committed to finding the perpetrators .
“ I am keen to speak to anyone who has information about this assault .
I would like to identify and speak to the four men pictured who may be able to help me with our enquiries . ”
There have been no arrests .
Any witnesses are asked to call police on 101 or contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 .
Read more
London staff at Deloitte sent home after case of coronavirus confirmed UK likely to see ‘ a lot more ’ coronavirus cases and deaths
Prince William jokes about ‘ spreading ’ coronavirus during Ireland tour

Traders Speculate the BOE May Follow Fed With Emergency Cut .
2020-03-04 10:46:11 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Speculation is mounting that the Bank of England will follow the Federal Reserve with an emergency interest - rate cut .
Investors are currently pricing in a 60 % chance that officials will lower borrowing costs by 50 basis points this month , with some market watchers , including HSBC and Nomura , saying the move may include an emergency cut before the scheduled meeting on March 26 .
A BOE spokesperson decline to comment on the market speculation .
Investors have been more aggressive with their expectations for monetary easing after the Fed surprised traders with its first out - of - meeting cut in more than a decade .
Still , the relief was short - lived for tanking equity markets , meaning central banks may decide that other , more targeted tools may be better to combat the effects of the coronavirus .
Governor Mark Carney , who leaves the BOE this month , said on Tuesday that “ there ’ll be some differences in the exact form and timing ” of global measures , but they will be “ both powerful and timely . ”
Andrew Bailey , who takes the helm on March 16 , may give more insight when he appears before lawmakers on Wednesday , while the government will be able to unveil its own fiscal response at next week ’s budget .
That prospect of easier policy sent the yield on 10 - year U.K. government bonds on Wednesday to 0.335 % , an all - time low .
Before the Fed ’s action on Tuesday , money markets were pricing in a 25 - basis - point cut for the BOE in March .
An emergency rate cut this week would allow the BOE “ time to formulate a plan for more targeted easing at the end of the month , ” said George Buckley , chief economist at Nomura .
He expects another 25 basis points of easing at the bank ’s scheduled meeting in early May , taking down rates to 0.25 % .
The BOE could also pull on other levers .
JPMorgan Chase Co. economist Allan Monks said officials could take steps to help keep cash flowing through the economy .
These could include including canceling a planned increase in the capital banks must hold and tweaking its lending program for them .
( Updates with more context from third paragraph )
To contact the reporters on this story : James Hirai in London at jhirai3@bloomberg.net;David Goodman in London at dgoodman28@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Dana El Baltaji at delbaltaji@bloomberg.net , Neil Chatterjee , Brian Swint
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Coronavirus drags Hong Kong business outlook to record low: data .
2020-03-04 06:30:58 +00:00 .
Hong Kong ( AFP ) - Hong Kong 's business outlook hit a record low in February , according to data released on Wednesday , as the coronavirus outbreak added to the financial hub 's troubles following months of political turmoil .
The Purchasing Managers ' Index ( PMI ) for the city 's economy plunged to its lowest mark since the gauge began , worse than the SARS outbreak in 2003 and the global financial crisis in 2007 - 2008 .
Hong Kong 's economy is reeling from the US - China trade war , pro - democracy protests last year and now the coronavirus -- a triple whammy that has created a situation Financial Secretary Paul Chan described as " exceptionally austere " as he delivered his annual budget last week .
Chan said the economy is facing " enormous challenges this year " , and predicted a range of 0.5 percent growth to a 1.5 percent contraction this year .
The PMI index fell to 33.1 , dropping below the previous low in April 2003 , according to IHS Markit , whose report added the PMI averaged 39.9 so far for the first quarter .
The gauge has been below the 50 level that divides expansion and contraction since April 2018 , though it had risen in December and January .
Markit surveys around 400 private - sector companies in Hong Kong across manufacturing , construction , wholesale , retail and services to generate the index .
The survey responses are collected in the second half of each month .
" The latest PMI flashed red warning lights on the dire private - sector conditions across Hong Kong in February amid the coronavirus outbreak , with the headline index plunging to an unprecedented level since the survey started in July 1998 , " Bernard Aw , principal economist with IHS Markit , said in the report .
" The average PMI so far for the first quarter of 2020 points to a deepening recession , raising the urgency for policy support . "
The figures come just days after China 's PMI was at 35.7 points in February , well below the 50 - point mark that separates growth and contraction every month .
This was down from 50 points in January and the worst level since China began recording the figure in 2005 .
It was also nowhere near expectations of a smaller contraction , at 45.0 , according to a Bloomberg poll of analysts .

Coronavirus: China’s manufacturing heartland almost back to normal as over 6 million workers return .
2020-03-04 06:14:32 +00:00 .
A concentrated effort , which includes chartered trains and flights as well as cash bonuses for workers , for factories in China to resume normal operations after the coronavirus slowdown is producing results with over 90 per cent of firms in the Guangdong province having resumed operations as of Monday , according to the official Xinhua news agency .
The Human Resources and Social Security Department of Guangdong said over 6.08 million migrant workers had returned to work , which represents around a third of the overall migrant worker population in the province , although efforts have largely been focused on larger companies , with smaller firms continuing to struggle .
Most workers had been unable to return to work up until last week because of travel restrictions or new health requirements imposed on factories to halt the spread of the deadly coronavirus , which has infected more than 80,000 people and killed over 2,900 in China .
Over 70 per cent of migrant workers who returned home to Yunfu , a rural city in the mountains of northern Guangdong , on or the Lunar New Year holiday in late January , were unable to leave until February 20 due to the restrictions , the report said .
But now , more than half a million people across the city are now leaving their hometowns and heading back to urban areas , mostly in the Pearl River Delta .
Biel Crystal , a supplier of glass screens for Apple iPhones that normally employees 30,000 workers , had only 5,000 return to its facility in the city of Huizhou , Guangdong province , in the first week after the extended Lunar New Year holiday period ended on February 9 .
But an additional 22,000 workers had returned just over a week later thanks to the financial incentives and transport support offered by the local government , the report added .
According to government - run Nanfang.cn , specially designated support policies and subsidies have been introduced by authorities in Guangdong to promote the resumption of work in the province ’s leading supplies and business groups .
In total , 209 companies that are major suppliers to Huawei , as well as 21 suppliers to fellow telecommunication giant ZTE , along with 167 suppliers for electrical appliance maker Midea and 343 suppliers for car maker GAC Group , have been given priority to recruit workers .
However , small and medium - sized businesses are still struggling to solve their labour problems .
“ We can not affordable to pay for chartered trains and flights and those [ government ] support policies and subsidies are only for giant companies and government - owned enterprises ” said Wang Tai , who runs a small fabric processing workshop in Guangzhou , the capital city of Guangdong province .
In 2018 , the migrant population in the Pearl River Delta reached 26 million , according to a China ’s Migrant Population Report released by China ’s national health commission .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : China ’s manufacturing heartland almost back to normal as over 6 million workers return first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Coronavirus: South Korea’s infections reach 5,328 as it addresses economic ‘emergency’ .
2020-03-04 03:05:21 +00:00 .
South Korea on Wednesday confirmed 142 new cases of the coronavirus , taking the country 's total infections to 5,328 , while mainland China ’s new daily cases continued to drop as it reported 119 infections .
But new deaths in mainland China jumped to 38 , from 31 a day earlier , taking total fatalities to 2,981 .
China ’s National Health Commission said 115 of the new cases on the mainland were reported in Hubei province , the outbreak ’s epicentre .
The total number of infections in mainland China stood at 80,270 , while 49,856 patients had recovered .
Measures to help South Korean economy South Korea ’s government also announced a stimulus package of 11.7 trillion won ( US$ 9.8 billion ) to cushion the impact of the largest outbreak of the coronavirus outside China , which has disrupted supply and sapped consumption .
Finance Minister Hong Nam - ki said the supplementary budget , subject to parliamentary approval , would channel money to the health system , child care and outdoor markets .
“ As we understand that the economy is in a state of emergency , we are putting all our policy focus on minimising the economic fallout , especially for the vulnerable sectors , small to medium - sized businesses and self - employed people , ” Hong told a press conference .
Spain ’s first death
Post - mortem results for a man who died in Valencia on February 13 have shown that he was killed by the coronavirus , representing Spain ’s first fatality of the outbreak , a local health official said on Tuesday .
Meanwhile , the country ’s health ministry announced on Twitter that several sporting events would be held behind closed doors , with fixtures expected to draw crowds from high - risk areas , such as northern Italy , to be played without spectators .
About 100 health workers in the northern Basque region have been isolated in their homes after coming into contact with people carrying the virus .
Authorities are monitoring two clusters of the infection , in Torrejon de Ardoz , near Madrid , and the Basque city of Vitoria - Gasteiz .
Clean - up of Wuhan market nears completion
In China , more than a dozen disinfectant workers were nearing completion of the clean - up of the market in the city of Wuhan , Hubei ’s provincial capital , where some of the first coronavirus infections were reported in late December .
The cleaning of Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market , where wild animals were traded , is due to be completed by Thursday .
China - US military phone call covers coronavirus
Chinese Defence Minister Wei Fenghe discussed the coronavirus with US Defence Secretary Mark Esper during a telephone call on Wednesday that also covered military matters , China ’s defence ministry said .
Wei said the encouraging trend in China ’s coronavirus containment was expanding , according to a statement posted on the Chinese ministry ’s WeChat account .
Esper expressed a willingness to strengthen cooperation between the two countries in epidemic control and prevention .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : South Korea ’s infections reach 5,328 as it addresses economic ‘ emergency ’ first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Coronavirus: Hong Kong begins evacuation of residents stranded in epicentre of deadly outbreak .
2020-03-04 01:35:05 +00:00 .
Two top Hong Kong officials led a task force to Wuhan on Wednesday to evacuate 522 city residents stranded in the epicentre of the coronavirus epidemic , and warned some of those they bring back could be infected .
Eleven Hongkongers stranded in Hubei province , who initially said they would return , changed their minds and decided not to do so , said Secretary for Constitutional and Mainland Affairs Patrick Nip Tak - kuen at the airport , before he left for the central Chinese city with Immigration Director Erick Tsang Kwok - wai .
It remains unclear why the 11 decided not to take one of the four government - chartered flights leaving on Wednesday or Thursday .
“ I do n’t rule out the possibility that some of the citizens could develop symptoms [ of the coronavirus ] or even be confirmed infected upon their return , ” Nip said .
Nip and Tsang are leading a team of about 40 government employees to mainland China , and Nip said 258 people would take the two flights expected to leave on Wednesday , including 14 women in various stages of pregnancy , 10 people with urgent medical needs , and four students who are due to sit their Diploma of Secondary Education exams later this month .
But as some end their ordeal , more than 3,000 other Hongkongers not invited on the flights are desperate to know if their turn to leave is to ever come .
Among those is a woman who is 10 weeks pregnant , a family with a young child , and other citizens who are running out of medication for various illnesses .
Nip said more flights would be arranged later , and acknowledged some of the city ’s residents are stranded in areas far from Wuhan .
“ We hope that the operations on Wednesday and Thursday can go smoothly and orderly , and then afterwards we will be discussing with the mainland authorities to explore the other arrangements , ” he said .
While the 522 returnees would be sent to the Chun Yeung Estate quarantine centre in Fo Tan for two weeks , government workers on the task force are to be exempt , as they are unlikely to leave Wuhan airport .
Nip said those involved would have their temperatures checked daily upon their return .
Vehicles have been arranged to take people from their flats to the airport , and passengers would have their temperatures checked four times during the journey before boarding the plane .
They must also wear masks and protective clothing during the flight to lower the risk of infection .
Those infected with the coronavirus , those who have close contact with people who are infected , as well as people who show symptoms of the disease are not allowed to take the flights .
Last month , the Hong Kong government arranged three chartered flights to bring home 193 Hongkongers stranded on the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan .
Ten of those later tested positive for the coronavirus upon their return .
This article Coronavirus : Hong Kong begins evacuation of residents stranded in epicentre of deadly outbreak first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Donald Trump’s unpredictability clouds his true feelings about China, former US State Department official says .
2020-03-04 01:35:05 +00:00 .
US President Donald Trump ’s unpredictable nature and the fact that he has further surrounded himself with China hawks has led to uncertainty and a strain on American alliances , a former US senior official said on Tuesday .
Speaking at an event in the Hudson Institute in Washington , Kurt Campbell , who was assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs during the Obama administration , said the “ real deep state in the US government ” is wary of Trump and is unsure about his real stance on China .
“ On the one hand , he has a deeply abiding respect for President Xi [ Jinping ] , but probably for the wrong reasons , because he 's an extraordinarily effective autocrat .
Look at how he treats the press and his political adversaries , ” Campbell said .
Campbell said questions have also been raised about whether Trump would support Taiwan against increasing threats from mainland China , noting that when Trump occasionally speaks about Hong Kong , he “ sounds a little bit more like a Chinese leader than American one ” , which has aroused wariness in some corners , including the White House ’s National Security Council ( NSC ) .
Campbell added : “ There is a very substantial effort now in the US government that really believes that China is the next threat .
… I 'm not really sure how that will play out , but I do believe some of our alliances will be under greater stress and strain .
Their leaders really have to figure out how to manage the unpredictability of President Trump . ”
Last week , NSC spokesman John Ullyot said the United States was considering a range of responses to retaliate for China ’s “ egregious act ” in expelling three Wall Street Journal reporters .
On Monday , the tit - for - tat continued as the US ordered five Chinese state media agencies to reduce their number of US - based Chinese employees from 160 to around 100 .
Last year , the White House appointed Elnigar Iltebir , a Uygur - American scholar , to direct the NSC ’s China policy , which was deemed a “ poke in the eye ” to Beijing by analysts .
As the coronavirus that started in China ’s central city of Wuhan spreads globally , many recent Washington discussions have focused on whether the US should distance itself economically and politically from China , moves that would further harm the already wobbly bilateral relationship between the world ’s two largest economies .
The coronavirus epidemic – described by Campbell as “ the third biggest crisis since the end of the Cold War ” , the previous two being the 9/11 terrorism attack and the 2008 financial collapse – will likely cause a near - term shortage in Chinese - made drugs and medical equipment in the US .
“ The truth though is that the political atmosphere right now is more like the 1930s , divisively nationalistic , and it is causing countries to separate rather than basically working together , ” Campbell said .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live QA .
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Donald Trump ’s unpredictability clouds his true feelings about China , former US State Department official says first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

CannaTech Tel Aviv & PsyTech Summit Postponed .
2020-03-03 22:47:50 +00:00 .
New Dates : PsyTech Summit : June 14 - 15 , 2020
CannaTech Tel Aviv : June 15 - 16 , 2020 TEL AVIV , Israel , March 3 , 2020 /PRNewswire/
--
In light of developing circumstances with the COVID-19 coronavirus and based on recommendations from the Israeli Ministry of Health , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) , CannaTech Tel Aviv and PsyTech Summit are postponed .
PsyTech Summit will take place June 14 - 15 and CannaTech , June 15 - 16 , 2020 .
Saul Kaye , CEO of iCAN : Israel - Cannabis commented : " Our number one concern is the health and safety of our attendees and speakers , our partners , our colleagues and our vendors .
While we are disappointed to postpone both CannaTech Tel Aviv PsyTech Summit , we are very confident it will be worth the wait .
" We thank our sponsors and attendees for their understanding and wish all those affected by the virus our very best .
We are fully committed to create beautifully crafted events in June that will showcase the brands and solutions that fuel this industry . "
About CannaTech CannaTech is the only Medical Cannabis event of its kind with a global focus that offers senior industry leaders , medical and scientific experts , and new ventures the platform to come together , drive innovation , form partnerships and promote knowledge exchange .
Click here for more information about CannaTech .
About PsyTech Summit PsyTech Summit is the global industry event for innovation in psychedelic medicine .
With renewed research interest in LSD , MDMA , Ketamine and psilocybin , and a growing normalization after decades of stigma , psychedelics are quickly becoming the next therapeutic frontier .
Click here for more information about PsyTech Summit .
For further information contact Laura Kam , laura@kamgs.com , +972 - 54 - 806 - 8613 .
View original content : http://www.prnewswire.com / news - releases / cannatech - tel - aviv -- psytech - summit - postponed-301015876.html
SOURCE CannaTech

Mapped: Where coronavirus has spread in the UK .
2020-03-03 20:47:35 +00:00 .
As cases of coronavirus continue to rise in the UK , Sky News is tracking where the virus is spreading .
Cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed in all four home nations , with the majority in England .
Many of the patients contracted the virus abroad , in countries including Italy , Iran , China and France .
However , there have been more recent cases of people testing positive for COVID-19 despite not travelling to any affected areas .
This means they must have contracted the virus either directly or indirectly through an infected person in the UK .
Below is a map of the majority of the confirmed cases in Britain , and also details about some of those infected .
The first people to be diagnosed with the coronavirus in the UK were two members of the same family who had been staying at a hotel in York .
One was a student at the University of York and had recently returned from China .
A second spate of cases were linked to a businessman who contracted the coronavirus after attending a conference in Singapore .
The so - called ' super - spreader ' Steve Walsh stayed at a French ski chalet before returning to the UK .
Five people who had come into contact with the man , including four from East Sussex , then tested positive for the virus in the UK .
A further four people were diagnosed with coronavirus after being flown back from the Diamond Princess cruise ship , which had been quarantined off the coast of Japan .
The patients had arrived at a quarantine site in Merseyside a day earlier .
A man from Haslemere , Surrey , became the first person to be infected with the virus in the UK .
Officials said it was not clear if he had contracted the virus " directly or indirectly " from somebody who had recently travelled abroad .
: : Listen to the Daily podcast on Apple Podcasts , Google Podcasts , Spotify , Spreaker
It was later confirmed that three relatives of the Surrey patient had also tested positive for the virus .
Meanwhile , the first case in Northern Ireland was a patient in Belfast who had recently returned from northern Italy .
In Wales , a person from Swansea who had also visited Italy tested positive for the virus .
Scotland 's first case , a Tayside resident , was confirmed to have the virus on Monday .
A number of schools in England have closed over coronavirus fears , including Churston Ferrers Grammar School in Torbay , Devon , which announced on Monday that one of its students had the virus .
Willow Bank Infant School in Woodley , Reading , Wimbledon College in London and St Mary 's School in Tetbury , Gloucestershire , also closed for deep cleaning after staff members tested positive for COVID-19 .
A second case in Gloucestershire was later linked to the staff member at St Mary 's School .
On Tuesday , Health Secretary Matt Hancock confirmed 12 more cases of the virus - but did not specify where they were reported .
Virus Outbreak : Global Emergency - Watch a special Sky News programme on coronavirus at 6 pm weekdays .

Here Are the Rate Cuts Traders Expect for Central Banks in March .
2020-03-03 14:56:03 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Traders are betting global central banks could cut interest rates in unison in the face of the economic damage wrought by the coronavirus .
Money markets are expecting Bank of Canada to jump into action at its meeting on Wednesday , after the Reserve Bank of Australia ’s move to cut rates to a record low today .
Global policy makers and finance ministers pledged Tuesday to fight the economic fallout from the virus , kicking off a month where all major central banks have scheduled decisions .
Bank of Canada Decision day : March 4Current interest rate : 1.75%Scale of usual cut : 25 basis pointsTraders expect this month : Markets are pricing in a 100 % chance of a cut Wednesday , following five hikes since mid-2017
European Central Bank Decision day : March 12Current interest rate :
-0.5 %
( deposit facility)Scale of usual cut : 10 basis pointsTraders expect this month :
Traders are pricing an 60 % chance of a cut deeper into negative territory , though the stimulatory effect of such a move has been questioned
Federal Reserve
Decision day : March 18Current interest rate : 1.5 % ( lower bound)Scale of usual cut : 25 basis pointsTraders expect this month : Pricing in 100 % chance of a 25 - basis - point cut and a 90 % chance of a 50 - basis - point move , with some speculation that they could instead opt for an emergency cut outside of their designated schedule Bank of Japan Decision day : March 19Current interest rate : -0.10%Scale of usual cut : 20bpsTraders expect this month : The institution is seen as the least likely to cut rates , having only done so once in the last decade ; money markets are pricing in a 25 % chance
Bank of England
Decision day : March 26Current interest rate : 0.75%Scale of usual cut : 25 basis pointsTraders expect this month : A cut this month is seen as a near certainty in markets at 98 % , even though little is known about the views of the new Governor Andrew Bailey
( Updates pricing , adds G-7 statement in second paragraph . )
--With assistance from Stephen Spratt .
To contact the reporters on this story : John Ainger in London at jainger@bloomberg.net;James Hirai in London at jhirai3@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Dana El Baltaji at delbaltaji@bloomberg.net , Neil Chatterjee
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

NDP says Premier Scott Moe is 'playing political games' on possibility of early election .
2020-03-03 12:01:50 +00:00 .
The spring sitting of the Saskatchewan legislature got underway Monday with NDP Leader Ryan Meili accusing Premier Scott Moe of " playing political games " with the possibility of an early election .
Meili asked Moe during the opening question period if he would be calling voters to the polls earlier than the fixed date of October 26 .
Moe did not provide an answer in the house and was asked by reporters afterward .
" We continue to plan for the Oct. 26 date , but in saying that we are aware we 've been elected for four years and we 're also aware that the premier does have the opportunity to call it [ before ] the Oct. 26 date if he chooses , " Moe said .
When reporters continued to press Moe , he replied that an election could be called early but there are still discussions to be had .
" As I said , if there is anything contrary to Oct. 26 you would be among the very first to know . "
[ Moe ] should be straightfroward with the people of Saskatchewan .
- Ryan Meili , leader of the Saskatchewan NDP
Moe said on Friday economic unrest " caused by blockades in support of Wet'suwet'en hereditary chief could play a factor in an early election .
Moe also mentioned COVID-19 , otherwise known as the coronavirus , as a potential election trigger during last week 's availability .
The premier then backtracked on Monday , when he clarified his statement about the role COVID-19 would play in an election call , saying it " will not be a factor . "
Moe said five different jurisdictions in the country have minority governments which makes everyone prepared to campaign at all times .
He said the " choice " for voters is more important than when they vote .
The Saskatchewan Party holds a seat advantage of 46 to 13 over the NDP .
The government has also confirmed 55 of 61 candidates for the upcoming election so far .
The NDP has 30 nominated candidates .
" It 's pretty clear the premier is playing political games when it comes to the question of election timing , " said NDP Leader Ryan Meili on Monday .
" He should be straightforward with the people of Saskatchewan . "
Saskatchewan 's last general election was on April 4 , 2016 .
If Oct. 26 , 2020 , is election day , there will have been four years , six months and 22 days between elections .
In Oct. 2018 , the province moved municipal elections to Nov. 9 , 2020 because the original dates were too close to the provincial election .
Fixed election law was 2007 campaign promise of Sask .
Party The Saskatchewan Party government passed fixed election laws in 2008 .
It was among the first laws passed by the new government and a campaign promise .
In debate as the opposition leader in April 2007 , Brad Wall said , " a brand new Saskatchewan Party government is going to bring into effect in this province set election dates
so all of the taxpayers and private citizens will know when and be in charge of when the election is going to be held in the province of Saskatchewan . "
Wall was critical of NDP Premier Lorne Calvert saying in the house the NDP could push the election call into 2008 and serve a five - year term .
Minister of Justice Don Morgan said in debate in April 2008 , " no longer will the most basic and vital democratic right be held hostage by political considerations and influences . "
" No more delaying going to the polls .
No more judging the political winds , trying to guess when the best time to face the voters is .
We made a promise and we kept it , " Morgan said .
In the house on Apr. 15 , 2008 during a debate on fixed election legislation , known as Bill 4 , NDP MLA Warren McCall said : " I want to make very clear , we 're definitely not in favour of fixed election legislation . "

Coronavirus has been spreading for weeks in the US undetected, researchers say .
2020-03-03 08:49:30 +00:00 .
The coronavirus has been spreading in Washington state undetected , according to a new analysis , as health officials nationwide increasingly fear there are far more cases of the deadly virus that have not yet been confirmed .
Trevor Bedford , a computational biologist at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Centre in Seattle , spearheaded a genetic analysis of two virus samples after multiple cases of the mysterious illness were confirmed throughout Washington in recent weeks .
His findings suggested the state was already facing a “ substantial outbreak ” that had not been previously detected because initial tests for coronavirus were limited to people who had recently visited China .
The virus samplings came from two patients living in the state , according to Washington Post : one of the patients , who was the first person identified to have coronavirus in the US , had recently travelled to China before returning to Snohomish County .
The second patient had not recently travelled and was not known to have any exposure to the coronavirus .
Such findings indicated that “ cryptic transmission ” had been occurring in Washington over the last six weeks , according to Mr Bedford .
In announcing his findings on Twitter , Mr Bedford wrote : “ I believe we 're facing an already substantial outbreak in Washington State that was not detected until now due to narrow case definition requiring direct travel to China . "
An official with the US Centre for Disease Control told the Washington Post the centre was in contact with Mr Bedford and that more analysis would need to be done to determine how the virus has spread throughout Washington , calling the findings “ far from definitive ” .
Still , the genetic similarities between both strains assessed in Mr Bedford ’s findings could suggest the virus had been spreading in Washington ever since the first patient returned to Snohomish County in January .
Both patients involved in the assessment were not known to have contact with each other before testing positive for the virus .
At least two people in the US died as a result of the coronavirus , as the death toll surpassed 3,000 worldwide , with the majority of those occurring in China where the coronavirus originated .
US health officials have meanwhile said the virus spreading throughout the country was all but inevitable , as the White House and federal agencies prepared for the outbreak to “ substantially ” impact everything from the strength of the economy to everyday life .
Follow live updates on the coronavirus outbreak here .
Read more Coronavirus : CDC mistakenly releases US patient

Brexit trade talks kick off in Brussels without handshake to avoid spreading coronavirus .
2020-03-02 23:34:51 +00:00 .
UK and EU negotiators marked the start of Brexit trade talks without a handshake on Monday , as a precaution to avoid giving each other Coronavirus .
Michel Barnier , the EU 's chief negotiator , met with David Frost , his UK counterpart , in the early afternoon , with a broader meeting including all negotiators later .
Over 100 British officials were drafted in for talks in the Belgian capital , with rounds of discussions set to alternate between there and London over the coming months .
Three further days of meetings in Brussels await officials this week , with discussions on nine different areas taking place simultaneously – across topics as diverse as as trade in goods , transport , fishing , judicial cooperation , and the controversial " level playing field " .
Hand sanitisers and NHS advice has been stationed throughout the UK 's Brussels headquarters to reduce the risk of infection , following the significant influx of visitors .
Officials confirmed the resolution not to shake hands for the camera this time had been mutual on both sides .
UK officials say Mr Frost told them they were in the EU capital to deliver on Boris Johnson 's manifesto pledge , and that negotiations should be friendly but robustly defensive of the UK 's sovereignty .
Mr Barnier said following Monday 's meting : " Negotiations started today in Brussels .
We approach these negotiations in a constructive spirit .
We want to agree an ambitious and fair partnership .
We will respect our prior joint commitments . "
The EU Brexit chief confirmed that he would " debrief the press " on Thursday at the end of the round of talks – though the UK negotiator Mr Frost is not expected to face any media scrutiny .
“ The UK negotiating team led by David Frost began the first round of UK - EU FTA negotiations today in a two hour meeting with Michel Barnier and Commission officials , " a UK government spokesperson said .
" The UK will engage constructively to reach a free trade agreement which fully respects the UK ’s political and regulatory autonomy . ”
Mr Frost described talks as " constructive " .
Contentious issues in the talks are expected to be the extent of European Court of Justice involvement in governance , EU fishing access to UK waters , and the extent to which the UK aligns itself with EU rules .
Boris Johnson has set himself a December 31 deadline to get a trade agreement sorted with the EU .
If none is in place by then the UK will revert to WTO terms , a change expected to cause significant economic damage to the British economy .
The withdrawal agreement Mr Johnson signed allowed the trade negotiating period to be extended by up to two years , but a decision has to be taken by July to extend the transition – during which the UK stays tied to all EU rules .
Mr Johnson has said he will not use the extension .
Read more
What does the government want from a US trade deal ?
Boost from US trade deal could be as small as 0.02 per cent of GDP PM claims he will ‘ drive a hard bargain ’ in looming UK - US trade talks
Brexit making far - right ideas mainstream , major report finds

British Airways cancels 24 flights on its $1 billion route between London and New York as business travel craters due to coronavirus .
2020-03-02 23:16:53 +00:00 .
REUTERS /
Toby Melville British Airways is canceling 24 flights between New York and London in response to reduced demand from the spread of coronavirus in Europe .
The New York - London route is British Airways ' flagship with numerous frequencies on some of its largest aircraft .
British Airways primarily appeals to business travelers on the route through the use of premium - dense aircraft that earned the airline over $ 1 billion between 2018 and 2019 .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
British Airways will be canceling 24 flights between New York and London in March as coronavirus continues to weaken demand for international travel .
The announcement came on Monday as the UK flag carrier slashed flights on routes across its short - haul network in addition to previously announced route suspensions and reductions to Italy , South Korea , and Singapore .
Scheduled flights between March 17 and March 28 will be affected , a time period in which over 200 British Airways flights were scheduled to fly between the two economic hubs .
While the 24 flights are a relatively small dent in the daily flight volume for the route , they signify a reduced demand for international business travel .
The London - New York route is the most lucrative in the world and British Airways is the dominant airline flying it , servicing the route with multiple frequencies per day and some of its largest aircraft including the Boeing 747 and 777 aimed at attracting business travelers .
The route is most frequently flown by aircraft with premium - dense configurations where first and business class cabins favored by business travelers take up more sections of the aircraft than economy .
Its strategy of appealing towards the business travel class earned the airline nearly $ 1.2 billion in revenue between April 2018 and March 2019 , according to estimates from travel data analyzer OAG .
Despite competing against Virgin Atlantic , American Airlines , and Delta Air Lines on the route , British Airways consistently offers the greatest number of flights , with near hourly service in the evening and a rare morning flight between the US and UK .
Flexibility and a greater number of available premium seats than its competitors make the carrier an ideal choice for the business traveler that requires both .
The only route that 's affected is the airline 's flagship between John F. Kennedy International Airport and Heathrow Airport , the largest airports in their respective cities .
British Airways also operates flights from JFK Airport to London 's Gatwick and City Airports , as well as flights between Newark Airport and Heathrow , but both of these secondary routes have been affected yet .
No other British Airways routes between the UK and the US have been reduced and the airline did not give Business Insider any additional details beyond the number of cancellations and the date range for the reduction in service .
British Airways is the first European carrier to cancel flights on a route to the US , but not the first global carrier — Singapore Airlines reduced frequencies on its routes to the US , similarly aimed at business travelers , due to COVID-19 coronavirus .
The airline also announced a temporary policy where customers booking flights between March 3 and March 16 will have the option to change their flights with no change fee in an attempt to inspire confidence in travel .
Read the original article on Business Insider

United Airlines Calls Off Investor Day on Coronavirus Threat .
2020-03-02 20:49:38 +00:00 .
United Airlines Holdings Inc UAL has cancelled its investor day as coronavirus fears loom .
Simultaneously , the carrier has cut back flights to Japan , South Korea and Singapore , significantly due to low demand on these routes .
United Airlines ’ investor day , which was to be held on Mar 5 , has been rescheduled for September .
The carrier feels it will not be " practical to expect that it can have a productive conversation focused on its long - term strategy next week .
"
With a substantial drop in demand , the carrier has extended the suspension of its U.S. flights to mainland China and Hong Kong through Apr 30 .
Previously , flights from the United States to Beijing , Chengdu , Shanghai as well as Hong Kong were cancelled through Apr 24 , 2020 .
The airline reduced approximately two thirds of its flights to Seoul , a third of flights to Japan and 40 % of flights to Singapore .
Moreover , the Chicago , IL based airline is operating some routes on a smaller aircraft due to the slackness in demand .
With the airline having a large international presence , the coronavirus poses a major challenge to its prospects .
Per CFRA analyst Colin Scarola , United Airlines with greater international exposure among U.S. airlines , is at maximum risk of facing lower passenger traffic from virus outbreaks .
The carrier generates approximately 40 % of total revenues from international route , per Scarola .
Consequently , amid uncertainty surrounding the coronavirus ’ spread to other parts of the world , its duration and effect on overall air travel demand , United Airlines withdrew its 2020 guidance last week .
As a result of the setback from the deadly virus outbreak , shares of the company have declined more than 29 % since the beginning of February .
To tackle low demand due to the outbreak , airlines are waiving off change and cancellation fees .
JetBlue Airways JBLU started the trend to facilitate travel and offer some relief to customers who were worried about their travel plans in the wake of the deadly virus outbreak .
Soon after , Alaska Airlines , the subsidiary of Alaska Air Group ALK , and American Airlines AAL joined in .
In order to compete , United Airlines may soon follow the same trajectory .
Zacks Rank United Airlines carries a Zacks Rank # 3 ( Hold ) .
You can see the complete list of today ’s Zacks # 1 Rank ( Strong Buy ) stocks here .
Looking for Stocks with Skyrocketing Upside ?
Zacks has just released a Special Report on the booming investment opportunities of legal marijuana .
Ignited by new referendums and legislation , this industry is expected to blast from an already robust $ 6.7 billion to $ 20.2 billion in 2021 .
Early investors stand to make a killing , but you have to be ready to act and know just where to look .
See the pot trades we 're targeting > > Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research ?
Today , you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days .
Click to get this free report JetBlue Airways Corporation ( JBLU ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report United Airlines Holdings Inc ( UAL ) : Free Stock Analysis Report American Airlines Group Inc. ( AAL ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report Alaska Air Group , Inc. ( ALK ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here .
Zacks Investment Research

Coronavirus has been spreading for weeks in the US undetected, researchers say .
2020-03-02 19:29:05 +00:00 .
Health specialists at the Life Care Center in Kirkland , Washington , where a resident and an employee were confirmed as having the coronavirus : AFP via Getty Images The coronavirus has been spreading in Washington state undetected , according to a new analysis , as health officials nationwide increasingly fear there are far more cases of the deadly virus that have not yet been confirmed .
Trevor Bedford , a computational biologist at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Centre in Seattle , spearheaded a genetic analysis of two virus samples after multiple cases of the mysterious illness were confirmed throughout Washington in recent weeks .
His findings suggested the state was already facing a “ substantial outbreak ” that had not been previously detected because initial tests for coronavirus were limited to people who had recently visited China .
The virus samplings came from two patients living in the state , according to Washington Post : one of the patients , who was the first person identified to have coronavirus in the US , had recently travelled to China before returning to Snohomish County .
The second patient had not recently travelled and was not known to have any exposure to the coronavirus .
Such findings indicated that “ cryptic transmission ” had been occurring in Washington over the last six weeks , according to Mr Bedford .
In announcing his findings on Twitter , Mr Bedford wrote : “ I believe we 're facing an already substantial outbreak in Washington State that was not detected until now due to narrow case definition requiring direct travel to China . "
An official with the US Centre for Disease Control told the Washington Post the centre was in contact with Mr Bedford and that more analysis would need to be done to determine how the virus has spread throughout Washington , calling the findings “ far from definitive ” .
Still , the genetic similarities between both strains assessed in Mr Bedford ’s findings could suggest the virus had been spreading in Washington ever since the first patient returned to Snohomish County in January .
Both patients involved in the assessment were not known to have contact with each other before testing positive for the virus .
At least two people in the US died as a result of the coronavirus , as the death toll surpassed 3,000 worldwide , with the majority of those occurring in China where the coronavirus originated .
US health officials have meanwhile said the virus spreading throughout the country was all but inevitable , as the White House and federal agencies prepared for the outbreak to “ substantially ” impact everything from the strength of the economy to everyday life .
Follow live updates on the coronavirus outbreak here .

Important to have 'boring and consistent' approach to foreign policy: Vivian Balakrishnan .
2020-03-02 11:54:15 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE — It is important for Singapore to have a “ boring and consistent ” approach to foreign policy based on principles , said Foreign Affairs Minister Vivian Balakrisnan on Monday ( 2 March ) .
Dr Balakrishnan was responding during the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ’ ( MFA ) Committee of Supply debate to a question by Member of Parliament ( MP ) Vikram Nair on whether any bilateral projects with Malaysia would be affected by the recent change in administration in Putrajaya .
The Malaysian King on Sunday swore in Muhyiddin Yassin as prime minister following a week of political turmoil in the country which saw Dr Mahathir Mohamad resigning as premier on 24 February .
Singapore ’s prime minister Lee Hsien Loong congratulated his new Malaysian counterpart on Sunday , adding that he was confident the Republic ’s long - standing relationship with Malaysia would grow under Muhyiddin ’s leadership .
He also invited Muhyiddin to visit Singapore soon , saying that they had much to discuss .
Nair , MP for Sembawang GRC , was seeking clarification about the impact on bilateral ties following the latest political developments .
He asked , “ Because typically when an administration changes or notwithstanding they may have good relationships with us , they may have different priorities from the previous administration , and are there any projects that we think may slow down as a result of that ... what could we do about that ? ”
In reply , Dr Balakrishnan said that as the Cabinet in Malaysia has not been announced , he did not want to “ prejudge the issue ” .
“ But I will just make two points that we know all the people on the political scene in Malaysia .
And in fact we 've taken extra effort to maintain those links , and to build that reservoir of goodwill and trust , so let 's keep an open mind , ” he said .
“ The second point I want to make is the importance of consistency and a principled foreign policy .
So I hope this is a moment where Singaporeans will appreciate it 's good to be boring and consistent , ” he added .
Earlier , Dr Balakrishnan said that Singapore was looking forward to resuming talks with the new Malaysian government on the delayed Singapore - Kuala Lumpur High Speed Rail ( HSR ) and the Johor Baru Rapid Transit System ( RTS ) projects .
He noted that after the Pakatan Harapan government took office in May 2018 , the projects were delayed .
“ When that happened , Singapore could have enforced our legal rights , and we could have sought full compensation from Malaysia .
But in the spirit of constructive bilateral cooperation at Malaysia 's request , we agreed to temporarily suspend both projects through formal agreements . ”
Dr Balakrishnan said that Singapore gave Malaysia some time to review its position and to propose amendments to what had been previously agreed to contractually .
“ However , these major infrastructural projects can not be suspended indefinitely .
At some point , we do need to decide whether to proceed or not . ”
On maritime boundary delimitation , Dr Balakrishnan said the two countries have held constructive talks on the issue and are cooperating in other areas such as the development of Iskandar Malaysia and joint efforts by the health authorities from both countries to fight the COVID-19 outbreak .
Stay in the know on - the - go : Join Yahoo Singapore 's Telegram channel at http://t.me/YahooSingapore
Mahathir remains on top of things in Malaysia : analysts In unprecedented move , Agong to interview each MP to determine who commands majority Dr M clocks in as interim PM , even as Cabinet stays empty ( VIDEO )
Agong treats media to burgers and fries , stays for a chat Azmin , followers claim trying to save Dr M from becoming ‘ lame duck ’ PM

China’s Stock Traders Are Making a Big Bet on Fiscal Stimulus .
2020-03-02 07:47:02 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
China ’s biggest stock rally in months signals investors are counting on Beijing to loosen the purse strings after data showed a collapse in economic activity .
Old - economy stocks led the charge on Monday , helping the CSI 300 Index close 3.3 % higher for its biggest gain since May last year .
A gauge of industrial shares rose 5.5 % , the best day since September 2015 .
In a rare development , the Shanghai Composite Index outperformed the leverage - loving ChiNext index of smaller stocks .
The stock moves mark a shift in investors ’ policy expectations after data for February showed manufacturing activity tumbling to the lowest levels on record .
The economic fallout from the coronavirus outbreak -- coupled with China ’s cautious stance on monetary stimulus -- is now spurring bets of more fiscal spending by the government .
The central bank on Monday refrained from adding cash to the financial system for a tenth straight day .
“ There ’s no question about the essential role of more fiscal spending through infrastructure in order to shore up economic growth , ” said Li Changmin , managing director at Snowball Wealth .
“ Fiscal spending is something that the government has control over and its effects in stimulating growth are straight and simple . ”
Last month , China pledged to roll out more effective stimulus despite a widening fiscal gap as the virus hits an already slowing economy .
Authorities at the time stressed the need to step up spending and ensure funds to contain the disease .
Turnover in stocks climbed above 1 trillion yuan ( $ 143 billion ) for a ninth day on Monday , the longest such streak since July 2015 .
More than 200 stocks in Shenzhen and Shanghai climbed by the 10 % daily limit .
Firms expected to benefit from more generous infrastructure spending outperformed , with China Railway Construction Corp. advancing by the 10 % daily limit and Anhui Conch Cement Co. rising to a record .
Cement maker BBMG Group , Beijing New Building Materials Plc and China Communications Construction Co. also surged by as much as 10 % .
Everything China Is Doing to Support Its Markets
During Outbreak Liquidity , leverage and looser policy had helped the ChiNext Index rally more than any other major benchmark in China this year .
It has been the most robust part of China ’s stock rebound since a record rout in early February , fueled by excess capital as the government acted to lessen the impact of virus on financial markets .
The rally gave cheer to the region ’s investors , who sent MSCI ’s Asia Pacific index up 0.8 % , its first gain in eight days .
To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story : April Ma in Beijing at ama112@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story : Sofia Horta e Costa at shortaecosta@bloomberg.net , David Watkins For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

Hong Kong’s iconic Jumbo Kingdom floating restaurants that feted the Queen, Tom Cruise, to close ‘until further notice’ as viral outbreak dents revival efforts .
2020-03-02 06:30:45 +00:00 .
Hong Kong ’s iconic Jumbo Kingdom floating restaurants will close their doors from this week “ until further notice ” as the coronavirus outbreak continues to slam a food and beverage industry that has been reeling since social unrest since last year .
“ As of March 3 and until further notice , Jumbo Kingdom will suspend its day - to - day operation , ” said Hong Kong - listed owner and conglomerate Melco International Development , in a statement on Monday .
“ This decision has been taken in light of the severe impact Covid-19 has had on the restaurants ’ business .
We will continue to monitor the commercial outlook for Jumbo and will provide any relevant updates in due course . ”
The Jumbo Floating Restaurant was first opened in 1976 by Macau casino tycoon Stanley Ho Hung - sun , and is run under Melco ’s subsidiary Aberdeen Restaurant Enterprises .
It later acquired the Tai - Pak Floating Restaurant in 1987 .
Both restaurants , located in Aberdeen Harbour on the south side of Hong Kong Island , are collectively known as Jumbo Kingdom .
The impending closure comes as Hong Kong continues to count the cost of the coronavirus outbreak that prompted the government to unveil a record HK$139 billion ( US$ 17.8 billion ) budget deficit for the coming year to help stabilise the economy .
The disease has compounded the pain in the tourism , retail and hospitality industries that had already been suffering from months of anti - government protests since last year .
Other restaurant operators are planning to leave the scene , including Jamie ’s Italian , adding to the casualty list from 2019 .
Tourists , especially the big spenders from mainland China , also stayed away from Hong Kong , with daily visitor arrivals plunging to 3,000 in February , compared with 100,000 in January and 200,000 last year , according to government data .
As a result consumption nosedived at restaurants , cafes , shopping centres and retail stores in the city .
About half of Jumbo Kingdom ’s staff , or around 60 to 70 people , were dismissed in January while its business hours had altered , according to some local media reports .
In its heyday as a tourist landmark – built in the style of a Ming dynasty palace – Jumbo has served millions , including royalty and film stars from Queen Elizabeth , to Gwyneth Paltrow and Tom Cruise .
It has even featured in films like James Bond ’s The Man With the Golden Gun ( 1974 ) and Steven Soderbergh ’s Contagion ( 2011 ) .
Despite 44 years of history and status , Jumbo had realised its need for a business revamp .
Melco announced in October 2017 plans for “ a total revitalisation ” ,
chairman Lawrence Ho Yau - lung said at the time .
In March that year , it sold a 509 - space car park that was used for guests , for more than HK$500 million to pay for the facelift , triggering speculation it might be planning to shut down the restaurants .
An earlier renovation in 2003 , which cost HK$35 million , helped transform the restaurants into a complex with shops , bars , speciality food stalls and a fishing village museum , the Post reported in 2017 .
This article Hong Kong ’s iconic Jumbo Kingdom floating restaurants that feted the Queen , Tom Cruise , to close ‘ until further notice ’ as viral outbreak dents revival efforts first appeared on South China Morning Post For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

WEEKLY ROUND-UP: Sports happenings in Singapore (24 Feb - 1 Mar) .
2020-03-01 23:52:27 +00:00 .
Singapore youth paddler Izaac Quek ( second from left ) stands on the top podium after winning the cadet boys ' singles title at the Swedish Cadet and Junior Open .
( PHOTO : STTA ) SINGAPORE — Here is a round - up of sports events and developments in the past week ( 24 February to 1 March ): Singapore youth table tennis player Izaac Quek clinched his first - ever cadet singles title at the ITTF World Junior Circuit on Sunday ( 23 February ) , when he defeated Canada ’s Martin Simeon 11 - 8 11 - 9 11 - 8 in the final of the Swedish Junior and Cadet Open .
The 14 - year - old proved to be too strong for his opponents at the Open , winning all his matches in straight games from the Round of 16 to the final .
His teammates Zhou Jingyi and Jayden Tan also took home bronze medals in the cadet girls ’ singles and mini - cadet boys ’ singles competitions respectively .
Izaac Quek had earlier won two bronzes in the junior boys ’ singles , as well as the doubles events with Nicholas Chong .
With Ser Lin Qian winning silver in the junior girls ’ single , Singapore finished the tournament with one gold , one silver and four bronzes .
Three - time Singapore Premier League ( SPL )
champions
Albirex Niigata Singapore got the new season going with a 4 - 0 thumping of Geylang International at Jurong West Stadium on Saturday ( 29 February ) .
Goals from Reo Nishiguchi ( 40th minute ) , Ryosuke Nagasawa ( 52nd ) ,
Tomoyuki Doi ( 60th ) and Ryoya Taniguchi ( 77th ) gave Albirex the victory over Geylang , who were down to nine men in the second half .
In Sunday ’s two SPL matches , Hougang United romped to a 4 - 1 victory over Young Lions , while Tampines Rovers edged out Balestier Khalsa 1 - 0 .
The United States ’ Janet Todd scored a surprise win over Thailand ’s Stamp Fairtex via split decision to clinch the women ’s ONE atomweight kickboxing world title at the ONE : King of the Jungle fight event at the Singapore Indoor Stadium on Friday ( 28 February ) .
The event , which was a closed - door affair due to the COVID-19 coronavirus outbreak , also saw defending men ’s ONE strawweight kickboxing world champion Sam - A Gaiyanghadao add another accolade to his name , beating Australia ’s Rocky Ogden via unanimous to clinch the ONE strawweight muay thai world title .
Singapore fighter Amir Khan was beaten by Japan ’s Kimihiro Eto , submitting to a rear naked choke hold in the first round of their men ’s lightweight bout .
Compatriot Tiffany Teo fared better , scoring a technical knockout win over Japan ’s Ayaka Miura in their women ’s strawweight fight .
Have a sports event to tell our users ?
Email us at sgnews.tips@verizonmedia.com .
In your email , do provide as many details as possible , including videos and photos .

The US has reported its first coronavirus death: a person in King County, Washington .
2020-02-29 21:24:49 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
An illustration , created at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) , depicts the 2019 Novel Coronavirus A man in his 50s in Washington state has died of the coronavirus — the first coronavirus death on US soil , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed on Saturday .
The man had underlying health problems that put him at high risk of developing a severe case of the virus , according to state health officials .
He died at EvergreenHealth , a regional healthcare network based in Seattle .
" It is a sad day in our state as we learn that a Washingtonian has died from COVID-19 , " Washington Gov. Jay Inslee said in a statement .
" Our hearts go out to his family and friends .
We will continue to work toward a day where no one dies from this virus . "
The governor added that the Washington State Department of Health , Emergency Management Division , and " local community health partners " were working to strengthen the state 's " preparedness and response efforts . "
A letter sent by EvergreenHealth confirmed that the man was one of two people who 'd been treated for " severe respiratory illness " there and tested positive for the coronavirus last night .
The other is a woman in her 70s who 's in serious condition and has been placed in isolation .
Neither had a history of travel to China , according to the letter , which was obtained by KIRO .
The woman is a member of a long - term care facility in King County , Washington .
On a Saturday press call , King County public health officer Jeffrey Duchin said that a healthcare worker at the facility had been infected as well .
The worker had no known travel history to China .
Approximately 27 out of 108 residents at the facility and 25 of the 180 staff members have shown symptoms of the virus , Duchin said .
Before Saturday , three cases had already been announced in Washington state :
Two " presumptive positive " cases were reported on Friday — a woman in her 50s who was diagnosed after a trip to South Korea , and a high school student in Snohomish County who is believed to be yet another US case of community spread .
Washington state also had the US ' very first coronavirus case : a man in his 30s in Snohomish County who was diagnosed on January 21 .
The man who died on Saturday was tested using a CDC kit that had recently been sent to the Washington state public health lab .
" If we had the ability to test earlier , I 'm sure we would have identified patients earlier , " Duchin said on the call .
The CDC said the risk to the US public remains low , but the agency may recommend canceling large public events in Washington state if the virus spreads further there .
In total , the US has at least 69 confirmed coronavirus cases , most among people who were repatriated from the Diamond Princess cruise ship .
Mapping the coronavirus outbreak : Where in the world — and the US — the disease has spread Chinese social - media platform WeChat saw spikes in the terms ' SARS , ' ' coronavirus , ' and ' shortness of breath , ' weeks before the first cases were confirmed , a study suggests Wife of first US service member to test positive for the coronavirus has also been infected At least 4 of the dozens of US coronavirus cases are not linked to overseas travel but are likely the result of ' community spread '

Fed Is Ready to Cut Rates in Response to Coronavirus .
2020-02-28 22:16:32 +00:00 .
As the worldwide coronavirus crisis mushrooms and as worries about the potential economic dangers pound away at stocks , the Federal Reserve is telling financial markets : " It 's OK — we got this . "
Fed Chairman Jerome Powell on Friday issued a rare and brief statement attempting to reassure investors who 've been in a panic all week .
He signaled that the U.S. central bank is prepared to cut interest rates to protect the economy from the growing threat .
Have you been worried about your shrinking 401(k ) or IRA balance ?
This one of those times when you want to have a financial adviser you can turn to .
But you can feel reassured that the Fed is on the case .
Powell wants you to know that the economy remains in a good position ( its " fundamentals " remain strong , as he puts it ) , but he says the outbreak threatens to knock it off course .
" The coronavirus poses evolving risks to economic activity , " Powell 's statement says .
" The Federal Reserve is closely monitoring developments and their implications for the economic outlook . "
The release ends with the most important piece of information : " We will use our tools and act as appropriate to support the economy . "
Translation : Central bank policymakers will respond with rate cuts and any other necessary measures to keep the economy on track .
Shortly after the chairman made his news , the CME FedWatch Tool — a closely followed Fed forecasting gauge — predicted that Powell and his colleagues would slash interest rates next month by one - half of one percentage point .
That 's double the size of the typical rate cut .
The tool forecasts that the officials will lower interest rates again in late April , by one - quarter of one percentage point .
Remember , when the Fed cuts rates , major banks lower the prime lending rate , the rates on credit cards and home equity lines of credit ( HELOCs ) come down , and other borrowing costs like mortgage rates may be pulled lower , too .
Last year , the Fed reduced rates three times over three months .
When this year began , many observers were betting that America 's central bank would just chill in 2020 — not make any moves .
But that was before the coronavirus flared up .
The deadly virus has spread to more than 50 countries , including the U.S. , where at least 33 people in California have tested positive and another 8,400 are being monitored after returning from overseas .
In China , where the outbreak first emerged , over 2,700 people have died , and factories , stores and Disney theme parks shut down as part of efforts contain the health threat .
The coronavirus is being compared to the 2008 financial crisis because of the potential risks for the world economy .
Wall Street is very worried about those dangers , so the stock market just had its worst week since the crisis days .
The Fed came to the rescue back then and took extreme measures to nurse the economy back to health .
It cut a key interest rate 10 times in 2007 and 2008 until it was near zero — an all - time low .
And it kept it at that level for seven years .
The central bank has its battle armor on again , though this time it does n't have quite as much ammunition as it did during those dark days over a decade ago .
Mortgage rates are close to all - time lows , other interest rates also are in the basement , and the Fed does n't have a whole lot of room to do much cutting .

3 US airlines are canceling flights to global destinations outside of China as coronavirus spreads — here's the list .
2020-02-28 20:50:52 +00:00 .
As the novel coronavirus continues to show little regard for international borders , US airlines are beginning to greatly scale back their services abroad .
While all US carriers have pulled back from China including the mainland and Hong Kong , airlines are now beginning to cut services on routes that do n't touch Chinese territory .
Delta Air Lines started the trend when it suspended service between Minneapolis and Seoul while reducing frequencies from its other Asian gateways in the US .
Hawaiian Airlines came soon after , suspending its Honolulu - Seoul route until the end of April .
With low demand greatly affecting international travel , air routes to non - affected countries are slowly starting to be impacted with service suspensions , reduced frequencies , or downgraded aircraft .
Here 's the list of airlines minimizing their global footprint in the wake of the expanded coronavirus outbreak in the Eastern Hemisphere .
Delta Air Lines was the first US airline to suspend an international route to Asia outside of China when it announced service would be suspended between Minneapolis , Minnesota and Seoul until the end of April on Wednesday .
The move came as South Korea saw a rapid increase in the number of coronavirus cases being reported and many foreign carriers began suspending service to the country .
Delta still operates flights to Seoul from its other US gateways including Atlanta , Seattle , and Detroit , but will do so five times weekly until April 30 .
The airline also had planned to launch service between Manila , Philippines , and Seoul at the end of March but is pushing that until May. Hawaiian Airlines became the second US - flagged airline to suspend service to Asia following the spread of coronavirus outside of China .
The airline is temporarily suspending its Honolulu - Seoul route from March 2 until the end of April .
The Honolulu - Seoul route is one of the most popular links between Hawaii and Asia , with numerous carriers competing for customers .
Hawaiian Airlines is the only US airline to offer service on it , competing against Korea 's top carriers among others .
United Airlines became the third US carrier to suspend routes outside of Chinese territory on Friday when it announced that numerous routes to Japan , Singapore , South Korea , and Taiwan would be suspended or see reduced service , according to a media release sent to Business Insider .
The airline is suspending service from both Los Angeles and Houston to Tokyo 's Narita Airport from March 8 until April 24 and Chicago and Tokyo 's Narita Airport from March 8 until March 27 .
Service to Tokyo 's Haneda Airport , which is expected to see new routes from scores of foreign airlines at the end of March , is unaffected .
Other routes to Asia will see reduced service or aircraft downgrades until the end of August including Newark - Tokyo , Honolulu - Tokyo , San Francisco - Kansai , San Francisco - Singapore , San Francisco - Seoul , and San Francisco - Taipei .

FIFA warns coronavirus could postpone international matches .
2020-02-28 20:32:51 +00:00 .
FIFA president Gianni Infantino has refused to rule out postponing international football matches in response to the escalating global threat of the coronavirus .
This weekend 's matches in the leading two divisions in Switzerland , where football 's global governing body FIFA has its headquarters , were postponed on Friday after the government banned all events involving more than a thousand people .
Meanwhile five Serie A games in Italy will be played behind closed doors , with leagues in Japan and South Korea postponed earlier this week .
" The health of persons is much more important than any football game , " said Infantino as he arrived in Belfast on Friday for this weekend 's annual general meeting of the rule - making International Football Association Board .
" That 's why we have to look at the situation and hope that it ( the coronavirus ) will decrease rather than increase .
At the moment it looks like it is still increasing .
" If games have to be postponed or played without spectators until it is over , then we have to go through that . "
And while hopeful that next month 's international friendlies will go ahead , Infantino added : " I would n't exclude anything at this moment .
I hope we will never have to get into this direction .
I think it will be difficult in any case to make a global ban because the situation is really different . "
Infantino was sceptical about the prospect of a large number of matches being played behind closed doors .
" Every competition organiser has to decide what is best for him , " he said .
" In the short term it can be a solution in order to move on but you can not imagine a few months of a competition with several matches played behind closed doors . "
The new coronavirus has caused fixture delays across sport , with Ireland 's Six Nations rugby union international at home to Italy , scheduled for March 7 , postponed and no new date confirmed .
In Asia , the Chinese Formula One Grand Prix in Shanghai , due to take place on April 19 , has been postponed because of the virus while athletics ' World Indoor Championships , scheduled to take place in the Chinese city of Nanjing next month , have been held over until 2021 .
The outbreak could yet threaten the continent - wide Euro 2020 football championships starting in June and the Tokyo Olympics , due to get underway in July .

Daily Crunch: Facebook cancels F8 over coronavirus concerns .
2020-02-28 18:14:14 +00:00 .
Coronavirus fears prompt even more event cancellations , controversial facial recognition software is being used widely and DocuSign acquires Seal Software .
Here 's your Daily Crunch for February 28 , 2020 .
Facebook has confirmed that it has canceled its annual F8 developers conference over growing concerns about the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic .
More specifically , the company says it ’s canceling the “ in - person component " — there may still be video presentations , along with live - streamed and local events , under the F8 umbrella .
At the same time , companies , including Microsoft , are pulling out of the Game Developers Conference over similar concerns .
And the Geneva Motor Show was just canceled .
2 .
Clearview said its facial recognition app was only for law enforcement as it courted private companies After claiming that it would only sell its controversial facial recognition software to law enforcement agencies , a new report in BuzzFeed News suggests that Clearview AI is less than discerning about its client base , and has in fact shopped its technology far and wide .
3 .
DocuSign acquires Seal Software for $ 188 M to enhance its AI chops Seal Software was founded in 2010 , and , while it may not be a mainstream brand , its customers include the likes of PayPal , Dell , Nokia and DocuSign itself .
( DocuSign previously invested in the company , too . )
These businesses use Seal for its contract management tools , but also for its analytics , discovery and data extraction services .
4 .
Senate passes ‘ rip and replace ’ bill to remove old Huawei and ZTE equipment from networks Written as a response to recent concerns around Chinese hardware manufacturers , the bill would ban purchase of telecom equipment from embattled Chinese manufactures like Huawei and ZTE .
It also includes $ 1 billion in funding to help smaller rural telecoms “ rip and replace ” existing equipment from specific manufacturers .
The Disney executive has been openly thinking about retirement and searching for a successor — a search that culminated in this week ’s announcement that he ’d be stepping down from the CEO role immediately .
But Iger ’s succession planning has n’t stopped him from solidifying Disney ’s dominance of the entertainment business , a position designed to last long after his departure .
( Extra Crunch membership required . )
6 .
‘ Robot ’ was coined 100 years ago , in a play predicting human extinction by android hands Published 100 years ago , R.U.R. ( Rossum ’s Universal Robots ) by Czech writer Karel Čapek is best remembered for bringing the word “ robot ” to sci - fi — and English , generally .
We 're trying out something new : As you ( hopefully ) know , TechCrunch hosts a number of Startup Battlefield events , and afterwards , those startups often go on to do interesting and newsworthy things .
But there are so many Battlefield alumni at this point that we ca n't cover every announcement .
So occasionally , I 'll be rounding them up here .
This week , we 've got news from Berlin 2019 competitor Nodle.io , which is crowdsourcing the connectivity of smart sensors by offloading the task to smartphones .
And Nodle announced this week that it has acquired Internet - of - Things security company Brickchain.com .
The Daily Crunch is TechCrunch 's roundup of our biggest and most important stories .
If you 'd like to get this delivered to your inbox every day at around 9 am Pacific , you can subscribe here .

Tokyo Disney parks closing for two weeks on virus fears: statement .
2020-02-28 07:19:06 +00:00 .
The operator of Tokyo 's two Disney resorts , Disneyland and DisneySea , said Friday the parks would be closed for around two weeks on fears over the outbreak of the new coronavirus .
The operator of Tokyo 's two Disney resorts , Disneyland and DisneySea , said Friday the parks would be closed for around two weeks on fears over the outbreak of the new coronavirus .
" Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea have decided to proceed with an extraordinary closure from Saturday February 29 , 2020 , through Sunday March 15 " after the government urged measures to limit the spread of the virus , the operator said in a statement .
The operator Oriental Land said it currently hoped to resume operations from March 16 .
" Currently , we plan to reopen on March 16 .
But we 'll decide when to open by looking at the situation and developments .
We 'll also consult ( official ) agencies concerned , " a spokesman told AFP .
More than 30 million visitors flood into the two parks per year , and they are among the most popular destinations for tourists coming to Tokyo .
The move comes as the Japanese government steps up measures to tackle the outbreak of the virus , which has been linked to at least four deaths in the country and nearly 200 infections .
On Thursday night , Prime Minister Shinzo Abe urged schools across the country to close for around a month , though nurseries and after - school clubs are exempt .
And the government has urged people to work from home and commute during off - peak hours , as well as avoid large gatherings .

A coronavirus patient and Diamond Princess cruise ship passenger being treated in a San Francisco hospital says he feels perfectly fine .
2020-02-28 03:32:39 +00:00 .
An evacuee from the Diamond Princess cruise ship has tested positive for the coronavirus disease , known as COVID-19 , and is being treated in a San Francisco hospital .
But the patient , 62 - year - old Rick Wright , told the San Francisco Chronicle that he feels perfectly fine .
The Redwood City resident spoke with the Chronicle 's Mallory Moench by phone about his experience aboard the Diamond Princess and his time quarantined at first the Travis Air Force Base in Fairfield , California , about 50 miles to the northeast of San Francisco , and now at UCSF .
His wife remains quarantined at the base .
" My wife and I , we remain positive and we 're not bitching and moaning , we 're accepting it and we have got to get through it , that 's how we approach it , " Wright told the Chronicle .
" We 're survivalists .
We 're fine . "
Wright said he has n't experienced the typical symptoms of the virus , such as fever , coughing , or shortness of breath .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) said these symptoms usually appear within two to 14 days after exposure to the virus .
Wright stays in his hospital room at a UCSF campus and receives three good meals a day .
He occupies his time with exercising , reading , keeping up with the news , and staying in constant contact with his family , including his wife with whom he FaceTimes .
Wright is one of the hundreds of evacuated Diamond Princess passengers who contracted the coronavirus while onboard the ship in Japan .
Three days after a man who had exited the ship tested positive for the coronavirus on February 1 , Japanese officials locked down the ship .
Shortly after , 10 people on board tested positive as well .
The entire boat and its 3,711 crew members and guests were then placed under a 14 - day quarantine .
Passengers were confined to their rooms mostly .
Health experts criticized the decision to keep people quarantined on the ship .
" From a virologist 's perspective , a cruise ship with a large number of persons on board is more an incubator for viruses rather than a good place for quarantine , " Anne Gatignol , a microbiologist who studies viruses at McGill University , told the Montreal Gazette .
Japanese officials just admitted that the quarantine was " flawed , " and may have allowed the spread of infections to more passengers and crew members .
By the time passengers left the ship , headed for an additional 14 - day quarantine on land , 691 people were infected with the coronavirus .
Some of the infected evacuees were taken to Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio , Texas .
Others , like Wright and his wife , were taken to Travis Air Force Base in Fairfield , California .
Two days after the couple arrived on the base on February 17 , CDC staffers donned in hazmat suits told Wright that he had tested positive and was to be transferred to one of the city 's UCSF hospital campuses .
" I was never anticipating anybody coming to my door to say I 'm positive , " Wright told the Chronicle .
"
The news came , we cried a little bit , and then I got a little upset .
I was more upset at leaving her alone . "
He was strapped to a gurney and transferred via ambulance .
Wright told the Chronicle that he has undergone more tests since the positive reading that landed him in the local hospital .
He tested negative for one on February 20 , then positive for one on February 21 .
He took two more on Sunday and Monday and depending on those results , he may be able to transition to a home quarantine , something that some 8,400 Californians are doing as the virus continues to spread .

What is Covid-19? .
2020-02-27 21:12:26 +00:00 .
The new coronavirus , now known as Covid-19 , was first encountered in Wuhan , China , in December 2019 , and has gone on to affect over 80,000 people around the globe , causing over 2,700 deaths .
The virus can cause pneumonia .
Those who have fallen ill are reported to suffer coughs , fever and breathing difficulties .
In severe cases there can be organ failure .
As this is viral pneumonia , antibiotics are of no use .
The antiviral drugs we have against flu will not work .
If people are admitted to hospital , they may get support for their lungs and other organs , as well as fluids .
Recovery will depend on the strength of their immune system .
Many of those who have died were already in poor health .
The name Covid-19 was announced on 11 February by the World Health Organization .
The director general , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , said : “ We had to find a name that did not refer to a geographical location , an animal , an individual or group of people , and which is also pronounceable and related to the disease .
Having a name matters to prevent the use of other names that can be inaccurate or stigmatising . ”
We do n’t yet know how dangerous Covid-19 is , and we wo n’t know until more data comes in .
The mortality rate seems to be about 2 % .
For comparison , seasonal flu typically has a mortality rate below 1 % and is thought to cause about 400,000 deaths each year globally .
Sars had a death rate of more than 10 % .
The World Health Organization is recommending that people take simple precautions to reduce exposure to and transmission of the Wuhan coronavirus , for which there is no specific cure or vaccine .
Despite a surge in sales of face masks in the aftermath of the outbreak of the coronavirus outbreak , experts are divided over whether they can prevent transmission and infection .
There is some evidence to suggest that masks can help prevent hand - to - mouth transmissions , given the large number of times people touch their faces .
The consensus appears to be that wearing a mask can limit – but not eliminate – the risks , provided they are used correctly .
Another key unknown , of which scientists should get a clearer idea in the coming months , is how contagious Covid-19 is .
A crucial difference is that unlike flu , there is no vaccine for the new coronavirus , which means it is more difficult for vulnerable members of the population – elderly people or those with existing respiratory or immune problems – to protect themselves .
Hand - washing and avoiding other people if you feel unwell are important .
One sensible step is to get the flu vaccine , which will reduce the burden on health services if the outbreak turns into a wider epidemic .
Related : What is coronavirus and what should I do if I have symptoms ?
Like other coronaviruses , it originated in animals and then migrated to humans .
Many of those initially infected either worked or frequently shopped in the Huanan seafood wholesale market in the centre of the city , which also sold live and newly slaughtered animals .
China ’s national health commission has confirmed human - to - human transmission of the virus .
New and troubling viruses usually originate in animal hosts .
Ebola and flu are other examples , and severe acute respiratory syndrome ( Sars ) and Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome ( Mers ) are both caused by coronaviruses that came from animals .
In 2002 , Sars spread virtually unchecked to 37 countries , causing global panic , infecting more than 8,000 people and killing more than 750 .
Mers appears to be less easily passed from human to human , but has greater lethality , killing 35 % of about 2,500 people who have been infected .

Tumbling Mortgage Rates Are Expected to Ignite Fresh Demand for Loans .
2020-02-27 18:42:51 +00:00 .
Mortgage borrowing has been fairly quiet , in what one expert is calling " the calm before the storm . "
A new report shows mortgage applications were relatively flat last week — before the coronavirus started looking like a gravely serious global health threat .
That has helped to push mortgage rates to supremely low levels , where you live and all around the U.S.
As a result , borrowing could be poised to explode .
If you spot a low rate , do n't just sit there .
Lock it — so it wo n't get out of your grasp .
Overall mortgage applications edged up 1.5 % during the week ending Feb. 21 , the Mortgage Bankers Association reported Wednesday .
Mortgage activity was muted as mortgage rates rose slightly .
But the current week is likely to tell a much different story , because rates have been plummeting .
" Last week appears to have been the calm before the storm , " says Mike Fratantoni , chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association , in a news release .
Requests for refinance loans slipped 1 % last week , after those applications hit a seven - year high earlier in the month .
But last week 's refi demand was 152 % higher than a year ago — meaning lenders were handling two and a half times the number of refinance applications as they were in mid - February 2019 .
Homeowners have been finding that if they refinance , they can slash their monthly payments and total interest costs even if their current mortgages were taken out as recently as 2018 .
The share of mortgage applications for refinance loans fell last week to 60.8 % , from 63.2 % a week earlier , as refis cooled and as homebuyers sought more mortgages .
House hunters were finding more of what they wanted last week , so demand for home " purchase loans " rose 6 % from the previous week and were up 10 % compared with a year ago .
" Purchase volume remained strong , supported both by low rates and the increased pace of construction over the past few months , " Fratantoni says .
" With housing supply at low levels , new inventory is a positive development for prospective homebuyers . "
Builders are cranking up construction to get more new houses ready for the market .
Starts on new homes soared 21.4 % in January compared to a year earlier , and building permits were at their highest level since March 2007 .
Mortgage rates have dropped to the lowest levels in years and are approaching all - time lows as financial markets grow frantic over the rapid spread of the deadly coronavirus .
The average for a 30 - year fixed - rate mortgage has dropped this week to 3.33 % , according to a survey from Mortgage News Daily .
Mortgage giant Freddie Mac reports the benchmark mortgage rate is averaging 3.45 % — not far from the all - time low of 3.31 % .
Borrowers are being rewarded with big savings if they know how to shop around for the very lowest rates .
A $ 200,000 , 30 - year fixed mortgage at 3.35 % has a monthly payment of $ 881 , while a loan at 4 % has a monthly payment of $ 955 .
Mortgage rates are tumbling as investors drain money out of stocks and plow it into Treasury bonds as a safer investment amid the worsening coronavirus crisis .
Rates on home loans track the interest on 10 - year Treasury notes , which fell to new depths this week as the hunger for bonds caused their prices to pop .
Bond prices and yields move in opposite directions .
"
As fears regarding the coronavirus have increased , Treasury yields have dropped to record lows this week amid the ensuing financial market volatility .
Next week 's results will show the impact this drop in Treasuries had on mortgage activity , " Fratantoni says .
In other words , borrowing could boom .

Macron, Conte Seek to Map New Course After Paris-Rome Spat .
2020-02-27 18:13:09 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
French President Emmanuel Macron and Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte staged a show of friendship with a summit designed to turn the page on a postwar low in bilateral relations , even as coronavirus concerns overshadowed the meeting ’s agenda .
Conte hosted Macron in Naples , with the two sides seeking to boost cooperation in fields ranging from reviewing European Union governance to the naval and technology sectors , according to Italian and French officials .
The leaders are keen to ensure warmer ties after Macron recalled the French ambassador to Rome for a week in February 2019 .
Macron ’s move was prompted by Luigi Di Maio , then - deputy premier in Conte ’s first coalition , visiting France to meet Yellow Vests protesters .
Di Maio at the time accused Macron of acting like offended royalty .
The two sides have since been reconciled , and Di Maio is now foreign minister .
Projecting a business and tourism - as - usual image despite the spread of coronavirus in their countries , with Italy the worst - affected European nation and France issuing warnings on returnees from northern Italy , the leaders began their day in Naples with visits to a theater and a chapel in the historic heart of the city .
Talks between the leaders and ministers including finance and foreign chiefs will focus on the two countries ’ push to review European Union competition rules , and how the bloc ’s economic rules can facilitate green investments , said the officials , who asked not to be identified because the preparations were private .
Conte and Macron are due to commit to common projects including a joint shipping venture between Naval Group and Fincantieri SpA , and an accord between Italian state lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti and France ’s Banque Publique d’Investissement to create a fund for technology and innovation , the officials said .
Also on the agenda is the Libyan crisis and the EU ’s plan to deploy aerial , satellite and maritime assets in the Mediterranean Sea tasked with preventing the shipment of arms to the country ’s warring factions .
Both France and Italy are increasingly marginalized in a region where they were once dominant players , with Russia and Turkey now the heavyweights .
The spread of the coronavirus especially in the northern Italian regions of Lombardy and Veneto , which has caused a virtual lockdown in vast areas , prompted France to ask Italian authorities if they wished to go ahead with the summit , a French official said .
The Italians said yes , and both sides see the event as a message of solidarity in dealing with the disease .
The French foreign ministry has recommended that people postpone trips to northern Italy , and that upon their return they work remotely for two weeks and wear surgical masks .
The French education ministry has asked schools to recommend that children coming back from Lombardy and Veneto should stay home for 14 days .
For Macron , the Naples visit has personal significance as well .
The San Ferdinando Theater he visited was the home of the late playwright Eduardo De Filippo , and it was a play of his that Macron reshaped in high school with his drama teacher Brigitte Auziere , who later became his wife .
To contact the reporters on this story : John Follain in Naples at jfollain2@bloomberg.net;Ania Nussbaum in Paris at anianussbaum@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Ben Sills at bsills@bloomberg.net , ; Rosalind Mathieson at rmathieson3@bloomberg.net , Richard Bravo , Caroline Alexander For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

It’s Back to Volmageddon With $13 Billion Exiting S&P 500 ETF .
2020-02-27 16:44:36 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The brutal sell - off in stocks has investors fleeing the world ’s largest exchange - traded fund at a rate not seen since the rout in February 2018 .
The $ 279 billion SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust , which tracks the American equity benchmark , has seen about $ 13 billion of outflows since Friday and is headed for its biggest weekly drawdown in two years , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
Back then , the S&P 500 Index plunged , creating the biggest - ever volatility spike in an event that came to be known as “ Volmageddon . ”
After wild swings in stocks , a market correction is finally here .
The six - day slide pushed the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average down by 10 % from all - time highs .
The rapid spread of the coronavirus has made equity strategists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. slash their outlook for U.S. companies ’ profit growth to zero this year on concern the epidemic will erode revenue and dent the global economy .
The velocity of the rout has investors questioning whether this is another buying opportunity during the 11 - year bull market or the beginning of its end .
For now , ETF flows suggest fear is climbing that it ’s the latter .
“ There ’s a lot of fear given the unknowns , ” said Todd Rosenbluth , CFRA Research ’s New York - based director of ETF research .
“ If we have a prolonged period of uncertainty , I would expect outflows to continue .
If you have a short time horizon , then selling first and asking questions later may make more sense . ”
Investors withdrew $ 3.12 billion from State Street ’s SPY , as the fund is known , on Wednesday -- reducing its assets to the smallest size since October , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
It was the fourth straight day of outflows , totaling $ 18.7 billion .
The fund has suffered withdrawals of $ 13.3 billion in the past year .
To contact the reporter on this story
: Claire Ballentine in New York at cballentine@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story : Jeremy Herron at jherron8@bloomberg.net , Rita Nazareth For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

Canceled travel, revenue losses: Virus hits businesses hard .
2020-02-27 16:31:09 +00:00 .
In this photo taken Saturday , Feb. 22 , 2020 , a chef works near display of food products at a restaurant in Beijing .
Small , mostly private companies that are the engine of China 's economy are back to operating at one - third of normal levels after anti - virus controls shut factories , shops and restaurants , regulators said Thursday , Feb. 27 , 2020 and they promised more low - cost loans and other aid .
( AP Photo / Ng Han Guan ) LONDON ( AP ) — The spread of the new coronavirus around the world is hitting companies hard as they suspend production , meetings , events and business travel .
Here 's a look at the latest developments : MARKETS :
Markets are down sharply again .
The Dow and S&P were down over 2 % in early trading and Treasury yields dropped to record lows , a sign of caution among traders .
After a mixed day in Asia , investors sold off shares more aggressively in Europe , where indexes were down over 3 % .
Shares in airlines were down as much as 10 % .
PROFIT WARNINGS :
AB Inbev , the world 's biggest brewer , reported a significant drop in demand in China , leading to an estimated loss of $ 285 million in revenue so far .
Paypal says the outbreak means it now expects 2020 revenue toward the lower end of its range of $ 4.78 billion - $ 4.84 billion .
Frankfurt Airport is offering staff unpaid leave or temporary reductions in work hours as a way to manage the costs of a sharp drop in air traffic .
BUSINESS TRAVEL : Swiss food giant Nestle , the maker of Nespresso , Kit Kat and San Pellegrino , told its 291,000 employees worldwide not to travel internationally for business until March 15 , while domestic travel should be replaced by “ alternative methods of communication where possible . "
French cosmetics maker L’Oréal , which employs 86,000 people and owns the Maybelline and Lancome brands , issued a similar ban until March 31 .
CHINA :
Small , mostly private companies that are the engine of China ’s economy are back to operating at one - third of normal levels after anti - virus controls shut factories , shops and restaurants , regulators said Thursday .
The ruling Communist Part expressed confidence that China 's 18 million small and medium - size enterprises are recovering quickly .
The category includes most of the privately owned restaurants , factories , stores and other companies that generate China 's new jobs and wealth .
TECH CONCERNS :
The virus is expected to weigh on the global personal computer market , according to tech research firm IDC , which forecasts shipments of desktops , notebooks and tablets will fall 9 percent in 2020 .
Chinese factories making critical PC components have been hit by an extended shutdown that will cause a supply crunch in the second quarter , IDC said .
It said the virus is also leading to reduced demand .

Online Travel’s eDreams Odigeo Sees Bookings Tumble After Coronavirus Outbreak .
2020-02-27 15:54:50 +00:00 .
Barcelona - based online travel agency eDreams Odigeo has seen bookings take a dive across all its markets following the outbreak of the coronavirus .
Not only is the disease causing problems across its China and Asian source markets , but in Italy — where 400 people have been infected — the company has also seen a significant dropoff .
“ [ Before ] the outbreak of the coronavirus , we were seeing solid , high single - digit growth rates for bookings .
After the outbreak , increasing concerns about coronavirus have inevitably resulted in a slowing of demand , ” Dana Dunne , CEO , told analysts on an earnings call on Thursday .
Bookings across the business were up 8 percent on a year - over - year basis for the week ending January 16 , 2020 but that had flipped to a drop of 12 percent for the period between February 22 and 25 with Italy ( down 35 percent ) and China ( down 92 percent ) .
The company ’s geographical spread means it is somewhat protected from problems in specific countries .
China only accounts for 1 percent of total bookings with Italy at 7 percent .
If the current booking trend continues , eDreams still expects to report an increase across three key metrics — bookings , revenue margin , and adjusted profit ( EBITDA ) — for its 2020 full - year results .
Dunne , however , declined to give any guidance for 2021 , saying this would wait until June , when there would likely be “ a lot more clarity on the length and depth of this coronavirus outbreak . ”
Join Us at Skift Forum Europe in Madrid on March 24–25 Travel brands are increasingly waking up to the idea of using subscriptions as a revenue and loyalty play and eDreams has taken the idea on further than most .
The company started testing its Prime scheme on the quiet a couple of years ago and recently added hotels to the service .
Around 555,000 people now subscribe to the service across four different markets — Italy , Spain , France , and Germany — with a target of two million set for 2023 .
Members get a discount on flights and other services .
Dunne is now targeting a fifth country .
“ I would expect that , let ’s say , over the next six months , we would come to another market , at least another big market of ours , but we have n’t set that in stone yet in terms of the exact timing of it .
Right now , we ’re focused more on improving the proposition to the customer as opposed to moving out to a new geography , ” Dunne said .
EDreams reported a 13.6 percent drop in operating profit to $ 55.4 million ( € 50.6 million ) for the nine months to the end of December 2019 .
Revenue during the same period increased 11.4 percent to $ 480 million ( € 437 million ) .
One of the reasons for the drop in profit is the closure of Milan and Berlin call centres for a total cost of $ 9.8 million ( € 8.9 million ) .
On a quarterly basis adjusted net profit increased 23 percent to $ 12.4 million ( € 11.3 million ) .
Register now for Skift Forum Europe in Madrid on March 24–25
Subscribe to Skift newsletters covering the business of travel , restaurants , and wellness .

Trump has tapped Pence, who was criticized as governor for his handling of an HIV outbreak in Indiana, to handle coronavirus .
2020-02-27 13:18:16 +00:00 .
U.S. President Trump delivers State of the Union address at the U.S. Capitol in Washington President Donald Trump on Wednesday announced he 's tapped Vice President Mike Pence to lead the administration 's approach to the spread of coronavirus .
" He 's got a certain talent for this , " Trump said during a press conference .
But Pence 's response to an HIV outbreak in Indiana while he was the state 's governor looms over this appointment and raises questions about his suitability for this role .
Health officials in late 2014 became aware of an HIV outbreak in Scott County , Indiana , a rural county with a population of roughly 24,000 .
Previously , HIV was extremely rare in the county , but cases skyrocketed among people who use needles to inject drugs .
One hundred eighty one people who lived in or used drugs in Scott County tested positive for HIV between November 2014 and August 2015 , according to a 2016 study , which found that the crisis was avoidable .
Ultimately , a cluster of 215 infections were attributed to the outbreak , Reuters reported in 2018 .
Even after learning about the outbreak , Pence slow - rolled the initiation of a clean - needle exchange , which officials at every level were urging him to agree to .
It was against the law to possess a syringe in Indiana , and Pence opposed needle exchanges because he believed they encouraged drug use .
Over two months after officials detected the outbreak , Pence issued an executive order to allow for the distribution of syringes in Scott County , per The New York Times .
" The governor wanted to make sure if we went this route it was absolutely necessary , " Pence 's health commissioner told the Times in 2016 .
" I believe he was praying on it up until the final decision . "
Subsequently , the number of new HIV cases in the country dropped .
After Trump announced Pence would spearhead the administration 's coronavirus response , his handling of the HIV outbreak in Indiana was widely discussed on social media .
The Trump administration 's response to the coronavirus thus far has faced bipartisan criticism in recent days .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Tuesday warned that the spread of coronavirus , a respiratory disease that originated in Wuhan , China , is inevitable in the US .
Trump has sought to downplay the threat of coronavirus to the US while focusing heavily on the economy as financial markets take a hit amid panic over the spread of the virus .
Meanwhile , public health experts have warned that Trump 's history of lying undermines his credibility as the country braces for coronavirus , while expressing a lack of confidence in the US government 's preparedness .

A hospital in Italy may have botched one of its first coronavirus cases, spreading the virus further in the worst-hit country outside of Asia .
2020-02-27 02:55:08 +00:00 .
Residents wait to be given access to shop in a supermarket in small groups in the Italian town of Casalpusterlengo , Lombardy , on February 23 , 2020 .
Italy appears to have mishandled one of its first cases of the novel coronavirus , which made it spread further and turn the country into the most badly - affected outside Asia .
Italy recorded a dramatic uptick in coronavirus cases this week — with at least 233 cases and 12 deaths as of Wednesday morning — though the source and methods of the spread has been unclear .
Now there appears to be some clarity .
According to Italy 's Corriere della Sera newspaper , a 38 - year - old man with coronavirus symptoms had to wait 36 hours at a hospital in Lombardy before he was tested for the virus , during which he had contact with hospital staff and visiting friends and family .
The man , identified only as Mattia , was admitted to the emergency room in Codogno , Lombardy , early on February 19 with respiratory problems , reported the Corriere della Serra and CNN .
Mattia was tested at around 4 p.m. on February 20 — 36 hours after being admitted — and at 9 p.m. the infection was diagnosed , according to Corriere della Sera .
The delay in testing was because he was n't recently returned from China , the newspaper said .
However , according to Corriere della Sera , the alarm was not raised and Mattia not moved to the ICU until midnight — three hours after the diagnosis .
After this , his doctors and nurses , who assumed they had to self - quarantine , were recalled to their duties , and the emergency room he visited was n't vacated until late morning on February 21 , Corriere della Sera said .
His wife , who is pregnant , has also been diagnosed with the disease , but country authorities say her condition is " not worrying at all , " CNN reported .
The Corriere della Sera report comes shortly after Italy 's prime minister , Giuseppe Conte , appeared to admit fault of the Lombardy hospital before rowing his statement back shortly afterward .
He told reporters Monday : " There has been a management of the hospital not entirely proper according to prudent protocols , which are recommended in these cases , and this has certainly contributed to the spread , " according to CNN .
However , he seemed to contradict that statement the next day , telling a press conference that a report from Lombardy authorities demonstrates the " full correctness " of the hospital staff 's actions , CNN said .
When asked what had gone wrong , he added : " This is not the time for controversy , " according to CNN .
" Our health system is excellent , our precautionary measures are of the utmost rigor and we trust that , by virtue of the combined provisions [ ... ] we will promote a containment effect , " Conte said .
Italy 's health ministry had relaxed its official guidelines for hospitals ' coronavirus response shortly before Mattia was admitted , Corriere della Sera reported , suggesting this might have been why he took so long to be tested and quarantined .
The paper said that on January 22 , the guidelines advised swabbing anyone who " shows an unusual or unexpected medical development , especially a sudden deterioration despite proper treatment .
"
This changed on January 27 to apply only to people who had connections to China — which did not apply to Mattia .
Lombardy — where Mattia was diagnosed — is the worst - hit region in Europe .
Most of Italy 's cases are concentrated there .
Italian authorities sealed off 11 towns , including ten in Lombardy , on Saturday .
They also canceled public events , leaving soccer teams playing in empty stadiums and the fashion house Giorgio Armani holding its Milan Fashion Week runway show in an empty theater as a precaution .

Delta cutting flights to South Korea; JetBlue waives U.S. change fees .
2020-02-27 01:37:21 +00:00 .
Delta airlines logo is seen inside of the Commodore Arturo Merino Benitez International Airport in Santiago WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -
Delta Air Lines Inc said on Wednesday it would temporarily cut flights to and from South Korea , citing global health concerns related to the coronavirus outbreak as U.S. airlines grapple with lagging travel demand .
From Saturday through April 30 , Delta is suspending service between Minneapolis / St. Paul and Seoul - Incheon .
Delta will also reduce to five times weekly its services between Seoul and Atlanta , Detroit and Seattle through April 30 .
Delta has typically been flying more than two dozen flights a week between Korea and the United States The airline ’s new service from Seoul - Incheon to Manila , previously scheduled to begin on March 29 , will now start on May 1 .
South Korea has the most virus cases outside China andreported 284 new cases on Wednesday for a total of 1,261 .
A 12th death in the country from the virus was reported on Wednesday .
South Korea aims to test more than 200,000 members of a church at the center of a surge in coronavirus cases .
Also on Wednesday , Hawaiian Airlines Inc said it would suspend its five - times - weekly service between Honolulu and Seoul - Incheon beginning on Monday through April 30 .
With U.S. air travel demand slumping , JetBlue Airways Corp said that starting on Thursday through March 11 , it would suspend change and cancel fees for new flight bookings for travel completed by June 1 .
The airline said the policy " is designed to give customers confidence that they will not be charged any JetBlue fees for changes or cancellations later given evolving coronavirus concerns . "
U.S. carriers have canceled all flights to China through late April , while the United States barred nearly all non - U.S. citizens who traveled recently to China from entering the United States and required U.S. citizens who recently visited China to return home at one of 11 U.S. airports for enhanced screening .
At a news conference on Wednesday , President Donald Trump said he was not imposing restrictions on travelers from additional countries with large numbers of cases like South Korea or Italy .
He did not rule out imposing additional travel restrictions at a later date if needed .
On Wednesday , the chairman of the U.S. House of Representatives Transportation Committee , Representative Peter DeFazio , and the chair of the subcommittee overseeing aviation , Representative Rick Larsen , wrote the U.S Transportation Department asking how the government " plans to effectively prepare for the imminent arrival of a pandemic caused by coronavirus COVID-19 on U.S. soil . "
The two Democrats said U.S. airlines had expressed concern about the scope of requests by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and expectations regarding airlines ’ collection of certain inbound passenger data .
The CDC has expressed concern about its ability to access information from the airlines .
On Monday , United Airlines Inc said near - term demand to China had almost disappeared and that demand for the rest of its trans - Pacific routes had dropped by 75 % .

Exclusive: IMF, World Bank consider 'virtual' Spring Meetings as virus spreads .
2020-02-27 00:14:13 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO : IMF logo is seen outside the headquarters building in Washington WASHINGTON
( Reuters ) - Growing concerns inside the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank about the spread of the new coronavirus have prompted the institutions to consider scaling back their Spring Meetings in April or hold them by teleconference , people familiar with the discussions said on Wednesday .
The institutions ' April 17 - 19 Spring Meetings are scheduled to bring some 10,000 government officials , journalists , business people and civil society representatives from across the globe to a tightly packed , two - block area of downtown Washington , DC , that houses their headquarters .
Financial markets have fallen sharply in recent days on news that the virus is spreading rapidly in Europe .
Italy has reported more than 400 cases and people who have visited Italy have tested positive in Brazil , Algeria , Austria , Croatia , Greece and other countries .
Like other coronaviruses , the new virus - which causes a disease now called COVID-19 - is transmitted from person to person via droplets when an infected person breathes out , coughs or sneezes .
It can also spread via contaminated surfaces such as door handles or railings .
The IMF has warned in recent days of a potentially deeper economic fallout as the coronavirus spreads beyond China , cutting its forecast for 2020 global growth by 0.1 % .
The virus ' spread has raised concerns inside the Fund and the World Bank that the close interactions among people from their 189 member countries at the Spring Meetings could inadvertently contribute to the problem .
Officials from both institutions and member governments said that talk of canceling the meetings outright is premature , but they are considering several options to modify them .
No decisions have been made , they said , adding that much depends on efforts to contain the virus in the coming days and weeks .
Options include scaling back the number of meetings , canceling external events and limiting the size of the country delegations that would travel to Washington .
Another alternative is to hold " virtual " meetings by teleconference , and the institutions could still proceed with full - fledged meetings .
One person familiar with the IMF 's planning discussions said : " Plenty of people here see wider merit in testing whether holding key meetings virtually could be made to work . "
Other sources said IMF and World Bank managers were considering various options , and the scale and scope of the meeting would reflect the degree of concern .
" Of course we are thinking about all eventualities , " one of the sources familiar with the planning efforts said .
In a joint statement responding to Reuters ' queries , the IMF and the World Bank said that their senior leadership teams were closely monitoring the spread of the coronavirus .
" The question of arrangements for the Spring Meetings is one on which Bank and Fund have been coordinating with our respective Corporate Secretariats , which are our primary liaisons with shareholders .
We anticipate a decision on the scale and scope of Spring Meetings will be made in the coming days . "
After the September 11 , 2001 attacks on New York and Washington , the IMF and World Bank canceled their annual meetings scheduled for later that month in the U.S. capital .
The meetings were reconvened in November 2001 in Ottawa , Canada .
Both institutions by - laws state that their annual meetings of boards of governors , normally held in the fall , must be held in person .

Coronavirus Slowing China's Auto Market, but U.S. Isolation So Far Working .
2020-02-27 00:00:42 +00:00 .
The coronavirus is unpredictable , and so is its impact on the automotive industry .
While global automakers are still saying that their North American production and sales efforts are continuing apace , there are more and more hints that the virus is going to play a bigger role in changing the numbers in Asia and Europe .
Starting with the big picture , the Moody 's credit ratings agency changed its prediction for 2020 global auto sales on Wednesday .
Previously , the agency said sales would be down 0.9 percent in 2020 , compared to 2019 .
The new prediction is that global sales will drop 2.5 percent .
The virus ' effect on auto sales in China could be bigger .
Moody 's adjusted its prediction that sales in the country where the first case of the virus ( now known as Covid 19 ) was discovered would increase by 1one percent this year to expecting a 2.9 - percent decrease in 2020 .
That 's the overview .
Zooming in to locations around the globe , we can see how smaller incidents could still play a big role in the coming weeks .
MTA Advanced Automotive Solutions , a supplier for a number of automakers that build cars in Europe , announced yesterday that because Covid 19 was confirmed in Codogno , Italy , where MTA has a production plant , the plant would be shut down for an undetermined amount of time .
The plant 's 600 workers will be told to stay home and , " not delivering the goods will , in fact , cause the stop of the three [ Fiat Chrysler ] production lines " starting today and , as of March 2 , " all the other FCA plants in Europe and those of Renault , BMW and Peugeot will close too . "
MTA says that it will ask Italian authorities if about 10 percent of its workers will be able to return to work so at to not cause too large of a disruption to the supply chain .
As a global company , MTA says it " has already dealt with the COVID19 emergency in its Chinese production plant in Shanghai , and therefore knows all the procedures necessary to continue producing in total safety of its workers . "
Things are worse in China , where retail sales of passenger cars were down about 92 percent in the first half of February compared to the same time period last year , and the annual Shanghai Motor Show has been postponed .
General Motors has a big presence in China through a number of joint ventures with local companies .
A GM spokesperson told Car and Driver that it restarted production at some plants in China on February 15 but its plants in Hubei province , the epicenter of the coronavirus , will be kept closed until at least March 10 .
Even with all of these closures , GM says it expects the coronavirus will have " no impact " on its production plants in the U.S. Nissan 's local partner in China , DFL , restarted operations at three plants this month ( the latest just yesterday ) but the Japanese automaker also believes any impact on U.S , production will be minimal and told C / D that it is too early to tell what , if any , impact the virus will have on sales .
Volvo has also restarted one of its production sites in China and is waiting for local government authorities to give the all - clear before restarting its other plants .
Volvo 's plants in Europe and the U.S. are running at their normal pace , Volvo said , and although there is a shortage of certain components , " these are not critical so we can not see any interruptions in our production in the near term . "
Toyota has reduced its output to a single shift at its four vehicle plants in China , while all of Hyundai Motor Company 's production facilities in Korea and in China are in operation .
We will bring updates as they are available .
You Might Also
Like

FX Traders Hunting for Certainty Pile Into Bets on Volatility .
2020-02-26 15:04:31 +00:00 .
The old adage is holding strong , even as traders struggle to identify which currencies might offer the best shelter in times of upheaval .
Bets that there will be price swings may look appealing , in particular as implied volatility in foreign - exchange has n’t reacted with quite the same violence this week as similar measures for stock and bond markets .
While Monday ’s increase in option - implied currency volatility as measured by a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index was the third biggest of 2020 , similar gauges of turbulence for U.S. shares and interest rates surged by the most in years .
The Cboe Volatility Index , often labeled Wall Street ’s fear gauge , posted its biggest jump since February 2018 .
And the ICE BofA MOVE Index of Treasury volatility climbed more than on any day since 2015 .
“ The actual impact of the virus on macro economies is much harder to gauge right now than pricing the impacts on specific industries in equities , or pricing in the reactions of different central banks , ” said Monex Europe FX analyst Simon Harvey .
He sees volatility rising this year as the virus impact shakes out , but reckons daily shifts are likely to lag behind equities and rates .
Investors have sought ways to factor in the coronavirus outbreak and growing risks of a technical recession in Italy and Japan .
New doubts over traditional correlations between market havens and risk appetite have encouraged investors to take cover through options trades .
These help even when assets known for their safety , such as the yen , defy their reputations by falling during wider moves away from risk .
Similarly , the dollar has recently bucked established trends in its relationship with U.S. Treasuries at times , by rising when yields on the bonds fall .
These unusual patterns may prove fleeting , but while they are occurring , traders are embracing the rising tide of higher volatility in the currency market .
The cost of hedging the euro over a one - week period has reached its highest in four months , while buying volatility on the one - year tenor costs the most since early October .
As questions swirl about what risk - off trading now actually looks like , volatility in dollar - yen is at multi - month highs across the curve .
The uptick follows a period of historically low volatility across financial markets , with abundant policy support from global monetary authorities having helped to keep movements in check .
That ended when the coronavirus roiled stocks , commodities and other assets , prompting speculation that central banks around the world might have to cut interest rates further to support the economy .
Volatility Is Another Call Currency Traders May Have Got Wrong At the same time , currency volatility gauges are beginning to track their counterparts for interest rates in an about turn after decoupling for the better part of 2019 .
If that correlation holds , as long as efforts to price the next moves by the world ’s major central banks remain a two - way trade , hedging moves in major currencies could become a costly exercise .
“ FX vol remains very low in comparison to other asset classes , ” said Alan Ruskin , chief international strategist at Deutsche Bank AG .
“ But it ’s getting a little dragged along for the ride . ”
To contact the reporters on this story : Vassilis Karamanis in Athens at vkaramanis1@bloomberg.net;Jack Pitcher in New York at jpitcher2@bloomberg.net;Susanne Barton in New York at swalker33@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story : Dana El Baltaji at delbaltaji@bloomberg.net , Benjamin Purvis For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

World’s Best Airline Stock Now Worst as Virus Stymies Travel .
2020-02-26 13:29:40 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Two months ago , it was the world ’s hottest airline stock .
Now , investors are shunning it .
Air Canada lost C$ 3.9 billion ( $ 3 billion ) in market capitalization from its January peak , making it the worst - performing airline on the Bloomberg World Airlines Index this year .
Its shares have slumped 28 % on deepening fears that the spread of the coronavirus will hinder travel .
On Tuesday , the carrier extended the cancellation of all flights between Canada and China to April 10 over concerns about the virus known as Coved-19 .
It also stopped daily non - stop flights between Toronto and Hong Kong until April 30 due to reduced market demand .
New clusters of cases have emerged in Italy , Iran and South Korea .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Americans should prepare for significant disruptions to daily life if the coronavirus begins to spread locally in the U.S. Donald Trump ’s administration was also considering whether to adopt more restrictions on air travel because of the outbreak , White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said .
United Airlines Holdings Inc. -- the biggest U.S. airline to China before American carriers temporarily suspended flights -- withdrew its 2020 profit forecast late Monday , citing uncertainty from the virus .
Last year , Air Canada won the global equity crown among airlines after rising 87 % with plans accelerate its global presence in leisure travel with the acquisition of tour operator Transat AT .
Revenue from outside Canada grew to 64 % of total sales last year from 59 % in 2014 , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
About one - fifth of the airline ’s capacity is on Pacific routes .
In its fourth quarter results last week , Air Canada reported earnings per share that missed the lowest analyst estimate .
The airline ’s outlook for the year saw first quarter Ebitda come in about C$ 200 million lower from the prior year , assuming its mainland China and Hong Kong services will fully recover by the third quarter and that the Boeing 737 Max aircraft will gradually return to services in that period .
Air Canada still has a positive longer - term outlook despite facing near - term pressure from coronavirus risk , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce analyst Kevin Chiang wrote in a report published Tuesday .
He sees the recent sell - off as “ further buying opportunity ” for investors .
The stock has 14 buy recommendations , two hold ratings and none of the analysts covering the company believes investors should sell the shares , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
To contact the reporter on this story : Divya Balji in Toronto at dbalji1@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Kyung Bok Cho at kcho7@bloomberg.net , Derek Decloet For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

German with virus in grave condition; Austria probes death .
2020-02-26 09:51:37 +00:00 .
Medical staff in carry the first person infected with the coronavirus in the German state of North Rhine Westphalia out of an ambulance into the Liver and Infection Center of the University Hospital in Duesseldorf , Germany , Wednesday , Feb 26 , 2020 .
( Guido Kirchner / dpa via AP )
BERLIN ( AP ) — Authorities in western Germany said Wednesday that a man who contracted COVID-19 is in critical condition and has been taken to a specialist hospital in Duesseldorf , as officials in neighboring Austria sealed off an apartment complex where a female tourist from Italy with a possible infection died overnight .
The health ministry of North Rhine - Westphalia state said the man was first hospitalized Monday with serious pneumonia in the town of Erkelenz near the Dutch border .
He was then diagnosed with the new virus and isolated in an intensive care unit before being transported to Duesseldorf 's University Hospital .
The man 's wife was also isolated on suspicion of contracting the virus after showing symptoms .
German news agency reported that the man was in his 40s and had a pre - existing condition .
Stephan Pusch , who heads the district administration in Heinsberg , where Erkelenz is located , said Wednesday that schools and kindergartens in the area would remain shut Wednesday .
He urged people who display symptoms of illness to stay at home and contact their doctors by phone .
Authorities in Austria placed an apartment complex in the southern town of Bad Kleinkirchheim under quarantine Wednesday after a 56 - year - old woman from Italy died overnight .
Kaernten state officials said tests were being conducted to determine whether the woman , from the town of Friaul in northern Italy , had the virus .
Other residents of the apartment complex were also being tested , they said .
Austria , Switzerland and Croatia on Tuesday reported their first cases of the virus , all involving people who had recently come from Italy .
In a sign of growing fears over the economic impact of the outbreak that has so far centered mainly on Asia , German airline Lufthansa said it was suspending recruitment of new staff , offering existing employees unpaid leave and expanding options for part - time work .
“ In order to counteract the economic impact of the coronavirus at an early stage , Lufthansa is implementing several measures to lower costs
, ” the airline said .
Lufthansa , which also owns Swiss and Austrian Airlines , has already suspended flights to and from mainland China until March 28 and scaled back connections to Hong Kong .
“ Additional frequency adjustments to and from Frankfurt , Munich and Zurich are planned , ” it said , adding that “ in purely mathematical terms , 13 Lufthansa Group aircraft are currently on the ground . ”
Full AP coverage of the virus outbreak can be found here :
https://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak

German authorities say man with virus in critical condition .
2020-02-26 09:30:26 +00:00 .
Medical staff in carry the first person infected with the coronavirus in the German state of North Rhine Westphalia out of an ambulance into the Liver and Infection Center of the University Hospital in Duesseldorf , Germany , Wednesday , Feb 26 , 2020 .
( Guido Kirchner / dpa via AP )
BERLIN ( AP ) — Authorities in western Germany said Wednesday that a man who contracted COVID-19 is in critical condition and has been taken to a specialist hospital in Duesseldorf , as the country 's main airline announced measures to prepare for the economic fallout of the outbreak .
The health ministry of North Rhine - Westphalia state said the man was first hospitalized Monday with serious pneumonia in the town of Erkelenz near the Dutch border .
He was then diagnosed with the new virus and isolated in an intensive care unit before being transported to Duesseldorf 's University Hospital .
The man 's wife was also isolated on suspicion of contracting the virus after showing symptoms .
German news agency reported that the man was in his 40s and had a pre - existing condition .
Stephan Pusch , who heads the district administration in Heinsberg , where Erkelenz is located , said Wednesday that schools and kindergartens in the area would remain shut Wednesday .
He urged people who display symptoms of illness to stay at home and contact their doctors by phone .
In a sign of growing fears over the economic impact of the outbreak that has so far centered mainly on Asia , German airline Lufthansa said it was suspending recruitment of new staff , offering existing employees unpaid leave and expanding options for part - time work .
“ In order to counteract the economic impact of the coronavirus at an early stage , Lufthansa is implementing several measures to lower costs
, ” the airline said .
Lufthansa , which also owns Swiss and Austrian Airlines , has already suspended flights to and from mainland China until March 28 and scaled back connections to Hong Kong .
“ Additional frequency adjustments to and from Frankfurt , Munich and Zurich are planned , ” it said , adding that “ in purely mathematical terms , 13 Lufthansa Group aircraft are currently on the ground . ”
Meanwhile , Dutch health officials said they were tracing the movements of the German man after learning that he visited the southern province of Limburg last week .
The Dutch public health authority later said that its investigation established that the German man was in Limburg on Feb. 8 - 9 and was not sick or contagious at the time .
The authority said that further efforts to trace people who had been in contact with the man were not necessary .
The Netherlands has n't registered any confirmed cases of the new coronavirus .
Full AP coverage of the virus outbreak can be found here :
https://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak

Korean Air is letting people change their flights from the US to South Korea after a flight attendant tested positive for coronavirus — but there's a catch .
2020-02-26 05:52:10 +00:00 .
Certain passengers can now change their flights to South Korea booked on Korean Air .
Korean Air will allow customers to adjust flights to South Korea free of charge , after one of its flight attendants tested positive for coronavirus .
Customers traveling from the US to South Korea on Korean Air are now allowed to change their flight schedule free of charge , a representative for Korean Air told Business Insider on Wednesday morning Korea Standard Time .
The new date of the flight must be on or before June 30 .
The ticket must have been purchased on or before February 22 to be able to change it free of charge .
Customers seeking refunds will be able to receive them ( or not ) based on the conditions of their reservation .
" Customers can definitely refund their flight tickets with the refund charge in accordance with their ticket condition , " a Korean Air representative told Business Insider .
Korean Air announced on Tuesday that a flight attendant has tested positive for the novel coronavirus , as the outbreak rapidly spreads in South Korea .
On Tuesday , US airlines Delta , United , and American announced that they would waive the cost of cancelling or change flights for passengers planning to visit South Korea .
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has advised that travelers avoid all nonessential travel to South Korea , issuing a level - three travel warning for the country on Monday .
South Korean publication Yonhap reported that the employee flew on the route from Seoul 's main airport , Incheon International Airport , to Los Angeles from January 19 to 20 .
The flight attendant reportedly previously flew on Koren Air 's route from Incheon to Tel Aviv , Israel .
A representative for Korean Air declined to confirm the flight attendant 's past routes and flights .
According to the representative , the Korean Center of Disease Control and Prevention ( KCDC ) " will officially announce its findings including the time and the place visited by the employee . "
Korean Air is offering refunds on flights through China , Hong Kong , and Taiwan purchased before January 28 .
Customers who are barred from entry into a country due to coronavirus - related travel bans can also receive a refund .
For example , if a passenger recently visited China , the person 's ticket to the US would be refunded because the US is barring entry of people who visited China in the past 14 days .
As of Wednesday morning , there were more than 1,100 confirmed cases of coronavirus in South Korea , including 11 deaths .

China just banned the trade and consumption of wild animals. Experts think the coronavirus jumped from live animals to people at a market. .
2020-02-25 20:49:38 +00:00 .
A woman walks in front of the closed Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan , China on January 12 , 2020 .
China 's wildlife farming industry , valued at $ 74 billion , has been permanently shut down .
On Monday , the nation 's legislature banned the buying , selling , and eating of wild animals in an effort to prevent zoonotic diseases from jumping from animals to people .
The new coronavirus , which has killed at least 2,700 people , is thought to have been transmitted to humans by pigs , civets , or pangolins at the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan .
" There has been a growing concern among people over the consumption of wild animals and the hidden dangers it brings to public health security since the novel coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak , " Zhang Tiewei , a legislative spokesman , told Reuters Monday .
Zhang added that the decision came at a " critical moment for the epidemic prevention and control . "
Officials closed the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market on January 1 , and Wuhan authorities banned the live animal trade at all markets in the city soon thereafter .
A few weeks later , Chinese authorities temporarily banned the buying , selling , and transportation of wild animals in markets , restaurants , and online marketplaces across the country .
Farms that breed and transport wildlife were also quarantined and shut down .
The ban was expected to stay in place until the coronavirus epidemic ends , Xinhua News reported .
But now it 's permanent .
Much of China 's wildlife trade , according to experts , was already illegal : China 's Wildlife Protection Law bans the hunting and selling of endangered species , though not of all wild animals .
But the practice persisted due to lax enforcement and legal loopholes ( such as inconsistencies in species ' names and online sales of exotic wildlife as pets ) .
Before the new ban was instated , the Chinese Communist Party announced plans to crack down on illegal wildlife markets and trade across the country , recognizing " shortcomings " in its response to the outbreak .
The full list of species protected under the new ban is still unclear .
It covers wildlife already protected by law , other terrestrial animals of " important ecological , scientific and social value , " and terrestrial wild animals in breeding farms , according to China 's People 's Daily .
It does not apply to aquatic animals , livestock , or poultry .
China 's wild - meat industry is valued at $ 7.1 billion and employs 1 million people , Nature News reported .
The value of the larger wildlife farming industry is closer to $ 74 billion , according to a 2017 report by the Chinese Academy of Engineering .
" A total ban on trading wild animals would criminalize a substantial proportion of the Chinese population , and be untenable , " Zhao - Min Zhou , a Chinese wildlife - policy researcher , told Nature .
He added that shuttering animal markets would just move the trade to the black market .
Since the outbreak began , Chinese authorities have shut down 20,000 farms raising peacocks , civet cats , porcupines , ostriches , and wild geese , the Guardian reported .

Don’t Blame the Quants For Monday’s Stock Rout, Blame the Humans .
2020-02-25 15:53:16 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Wall Street ’s favorite whipping - boys want you to know : They ’re not responsible for Monday ’s bloodbath .
Despite warnings of stretched positioning , there ’s little evidence that systematic traders sparked the sharpest equity decline in more than two years , according to Nomura Holdings Inc. While algorithmic funds were probably forced to offload some positions amid the carnage , they likely were n’t “ the main culprits , ” according to the bank .
Instead , blame asset managers spooked by deteriorating fundamentals , like the coronavirus - induced hit to Friday ’s PMI reading .
In other words , humans woke up to the growing risk of a pandemic -- and panicked .
“ We get the impression that a wide range of investors are now factoring in a previously unthinkable scenario , ” Masanari Takada , a quantitative strategist at Nomura , wrote in a note on Tuesday .
Through most of last week , traders shrugged off warning signs including an announcement from Apple Inc. that the coronavirus was posing a bigger hit to sales and production than previously expected .
A day later , stocks duly rose to another record .
But with reports on Monday suggesting authorities were struggling to contain the virus ’s spread , caution crept in .
“ The main trigger seems to have been human decisions and non - technical factors , ” Takada wrote .
Funds that buy and sell based on algorithmic signals are often blamed for exacerbating moves whenever volatility spikes .
That ’s because commodity trading advisers or CTAs mostly follow market trends , while risk - parity and other volatility - sensitive products adjust positions based on price swings .
But not only did n’t they cause Monday ’s sell - off , some quants actually made money on it .
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s models tell a similar story to Nomura ’s .
While Monday ’s action breached trend followers ’ short - term momentum levels , their medium - term signals wo n’t flip red until the S&P 500 Index drops to the 2,900 - 3,100 range .
Their long - term signal is around 2,800 , a team led by Bram Kaplan wrote in a Monday note .
“ There remains a healthy downside cushion before CTAs would need to de - lever significantly , given the strength of the rally over the past ~4 months , ” the strategists wrote .
Monday ’s move was likely too swift to register with many programmatic investors who take their cues from longer - term trends , according to Guido Baltussen , co - head of quant allocation at Robeco .
“ In general with the virus you have sudden quick reactions .
They are typically a bit too quick to be captured by systematic models , ” he said .
That ’s not to say there ’s no more selling to come from programmatic players .
JPMorgan estimates volatility - targeting funds ’ equity exposure stands at about the 75th percentile , while CTAs ’ is around the 85th -- levels the strategists describe as “ elevated ( though not extreme ) . ”
Nathan Thooft , head of global asset allocation at Manulife Asset Management , is on the look - out to see what these funds do before deciding whether to buy into any weakness .
“ There is a risk of unwinding by systematic players that could lead to more downside , ” said Thooft .
To contact the reporter on this story : Justina Lee in London at jlee1489@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Sam Potter at spotter33@bloomberg.net , Yakob Peterseil For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

Coronavirus: Hong Kong school closures to extend beyond Easter .
2020-02-25 04:09:10 +00:00 .
Hong Kong school closures will be extended until the end of the Easter holiday , the Post has learned , though education officials were inclined to hold written tests for university entrance exams as planned from March 27 onwards .
Classes at kindergartens and primary and secondary schools would be suspended until after the break in mid - April at the earliest , a source said on Tuesday .
This year , Easter Sunday falls on April 12 .
Due to the outbreak of the coronavirus in the city , the Education Bureau earlier this month extended existing class suspensions at all kindergartens and schools for two more weeks until March 16 .
It was also mulling two options for the Diploma of Secondary Education exams , used for university entrance .
The first option is postponing a few tests , but keeping the original schedule for most subjects , with written tests to begin from March 27 .
The second is to delay the written exams for a month , starting on April 24 , and cancelling the Chinese and English oral exams .
Two sources said the education sector was inclined to adopt the first option , since it would cause less disruption for both students and the examination authorities .
Secretary for Education Kevin Yeung Yun - hung and secretary general of the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority
So Kwok - sang were expected to announce the decision at 2 pm on Tuesday .
Earlier that day , two more Hongkongers linked with a string of coronavirus cases at a Buddhist worship hall tested positive for the infection , which causes Covid-19 , potentially bringing the city ’s total to 83 .
This article Coronavirus : Hong Kong school closures to extend beyond Easter first appeared on South China Morning Post For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Mastercard Cuts Revenue Forecast as Coronavirus Hits Travel .
2020-02-24 23:59:20 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Mastercard Inc. lowered its three - week - old forecast for quarterly revenue growth as the spreading coronavirus curbs international travel and even takes a bite out of e - commerce , a business executives had hoped would be immune .
The credit - card network said it ’s knocking 2 to 3 percentage points off the prediction it made on an earnings conference call Jan. 29 .
That translates to growth of 9 % to 10 % on a currency - neutral basis , excluding acquisitions , it said Monday .
Shares of Mastercard and Visa Inc. dropped in after - hours trading .
“ Cross - border travel , and to a lesser extent cross - border e - commerce growth , is being impacted , ” Mastercard said in a statement .
“ There are many unknowns as to the duration and severity of the situation and we are closely monitoring it . ”
The short - lived forecast underscores how quickly the virus is altering consumer behavior as it moves beyond China .
Mastercard executives had previously taken comfort in the fact that much of the firm ’s business into and out of China is e - commerce , which could potentially continue amid measures to contain the disease .
“ It provides some level of a hedge , ” Chief Financial Officer Sachin Mehra had told analysts on Jan. 29 .
But even back then , Chief Executive Officer Ajay Banga quickly cautioned that the firm would “ take a look at those numbers once again ” if the crisis worsened and affected more parts of the globe .
On Monday , United Airlines Holdings Inc. withdrew its 2020 profit forecast , also citing the virus .
Mastercard ’s shares fell 4.4 % during regular trading Monday after a spike in infections in countries including South Korea and Italy triggered a global selloff .
The stock then dropped an additional 1.1 % after hours at 6:30 p.m. in New York .
Visa fell 1.7 % .
If the impact of the virus is limited to the first quarter , annual net revenue growth will probably be at the low end of the low - teens range , the company said on Monday , noting that it plans to give further updates on its next earnings call .
Visa CEO Al Kelly told investors at his company ’s investor day Feb. 11 that it was “ too early to tell ” what impact the virus might have on results .
“ But if planes are not flying in and out of China , if hotels are not being filled -- which they ’re not at the moment -- and if the supply chains are being impacted -- which I suspect they are -- there is going to be some impact , ” Kelly said .
To contact the reporter on this story : Jenny Surane in New York at jsurane4@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story : Michael J. Moore at mmoore55@bloomberg.net , David Scheer , Boris Korby For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

A U.S. Woman Who Traveled on the Westerdam Cruise Ship Does Not Have Coronavirus After All, CDC Says .
2020-02-24 19:06:55 +00:00 .
An American woman feared to have potentially spread COVID-19 to other passengers aboard Holland America Line ’s Westerdam cruise ship does not seem to have the novel coronavirus after all , the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) confirmed .
The false - positive is only the latest development in the Westerdam saga .
After rumors spread that a passenger on board the Westerdam had coronavirus , the vessel was denied entry at ports in five different countries — even as the cruise line maintained that nobody on board was sick with COVID-19 .
Passengers celebrated when some were finally allowed to disembark in Cambodia in mid - February .
The tone changed dramatically , however , when news spread that an 83 - year - old American woman — whom the cruise line said showed no signs of illness while on board — had tested positive for COVID-19 in Malaysia after disembarking from the Westerdam .
Her diagnosis stoked fears that other people who had been aboard the boat — many of whom disembarked in Cambodia and then continued on to other destinations — may have unknowingly acted as carriers for the virus , potentially contributing to its spread worldwide .
After news broke , passengers still on the ship were told to stay on board , and those who got off but stayed in Cambodia were directed not to leave the country .
Later testing on the American woman , however , came back negative for COVID-19 .
While the CDC has not tested the woman directly , a spokesperson confirmed to TIME that after the patient ’s initial positive result , two subsequent tests came back negative .
Follow - up testing on 1,500 other passengers aboard the ship also came back negative .
“ At this time , CDC considers passengers from the Westerdam to be at ‘ no risk ’ or ‘ low risk ’ of SARS - CoV-2 infection during the 14 days after their last exposure , ” the spokesperson said .
It ’s not entirely clear why the woman initially tested positive for COVID-19 , though CDC officials have said she may have had another respiratory illness .
Cambodian news outlets reported that Malaysia ’s health minister thanked the CDC for saying the woman never had COVID-19 .
Despite the apparent false - positive , many of the woman ’s fellow travelers are still exercising caution .
One family told USA Today that they had been asked to self - quarantine for two weeks back home in England , while American Elly Chybowski and her husband , who shared a dining table with the woman on the Westerdam , are self - quarantining at their home in Wisconsin until Feb. 27 .
“ The disruption to the lives of so many is tremendous , ” Chybowski told USA Today .
“ The emotional stress to all of us during the time of uncertainty before we got home is immeasurable . ”
Tensions around sea travel are high , given that another cruise ship , the Diamond Princess , has become a hotspot of the COVID-19 outbreak .
More than 600 travelers on the ship contracted the disease , in part due to delayed containment measures on board .
The CDC has since issued specific guidelines for managing suspected coronavirus cases on ships .

North Korea has yet to officially report any coronavirus cases. But it just quarantined 380 foreigners. .
2020-02-24 16:49:35 +00:00 .
A trolley bus is disinfected in Pyongyang , North Korea , on February 22 , 2020 , amid fears over the spread of a new coronavirus .
As the novel coronavirus continues to spread and fears are swirling about the prospect of a global pandemic , North Korea has quarantined 380 foreigners , most of whom are diplomats , state media reported on Monday .
Around 200 of those foreigners have been under quarantine for the last thirty days .
The state has quarantined the foreign nationals while " while intensifying isolation , medical monitoring and testing measures on those who have returned from overseas travel , those who have contacted them , and those showing abnormal symptoms , " according to the South Korean Yonhap News Agency , which cited North Korean state media .
North Korea is one of the most isolated , secretive countries in the world — and the spread of the coronavirus has only served to exacerbate its isolation .
In an effort to stave off the coronavirus , the state has blocked foreign tourists — most of whom come from China — from entry , the Washington Post reported in late January .
Though the nationalities of the quarantined individuals are unknown , they are believed to mostly be diplomats stationed in the capital , Pyongyang .
If the quarantine appears somewhat perplexing , it 's because the country has not reported a single case of the novel coronavirus , also known as COVID-19 .
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) declared in late January that COVID-19 is a " global health emergency , " and later said there were " no indications " of any coronavirus cases in North Korea .
" At the moment there are no signals , there are no indications we are dealing with any COVID-19 there , " Dr. Mike Ryan , chief of the WHO emergency program , said in a February 19 press conference .
If North Korea is , in fact , battling an outbreak , the country and its neighbors could be in trouble , since sanctions on the country have limited access to proper medical resources .
" There 's not enough medicine for the country , " Nagi Shafik , a former WHO and UNICEF official in Pyongyang , told Insider .
" I 'm really concerned about them facing an outbreak .
It will be dangerous for them .
It could go everywhere . "
" They can not produce the medicine they need because of the sanctions , " Shafik continued .
" Nothing new has come to the country to updates their medicine or technology .
What even is the best doctor without equipment ? "
Elsewhere , some 3,000 people in the North Korean province of North Pyongan are being monitored for potential COVID-19 symptoms , the BBC said citing state media .
And on February 21 , the country canceled its yearly marathon in Pyongyang that typically attracts participants from around the world , the BBC said .

Economists pull back odds on a recession in 2020 .
2020-02-24 14:58:48 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON , DC - JANUARY 29 : Federal Reserve Board Chairman Jerome Powell speaks during a news conference after a Federal Open Market Committee meeting on January 29 , 2020 in Washington , DC .
Chairman Powell announced that the Federal Reserve will not be adjusting interest rates .
( Photo by Samuel Corum / Getty Images ) A panel of economists now say that a recession is less likely than the same panel forecast last year , adding that the Federal Reserve was able to steer clear of a downturn with its three interest rate cuts last year .
The National Association for Business Economics ( NABE ) reported Monday that only 13 % of the business economists surveyed expect a recession this year .
The same time last year , 42 % of respondents said they expected a recession in 2020 .
Instead , about 74 % of the respondents said their forecasts had a recession coming in 2021 or later .
The survey collected 210 responses during the last week of January and the first week of February , meaning the survey was conducted when the coronavirus outbreak was only beginning to spread .
The economists appeared to be pleased with the Fed ’s efforts to steer clear of a recession .
Last year , the Federal Open Market Committee cut rates three times for a total of 75 basis points .
At the time , the Fed cited concerns over trade policies and geopolitical tension , adding that inflation was running below its 2 % target .
Almost two - thirds , or 63 % , of the surveyed NABE members said the Fed now has monetary policy right for the U.S. economy .
The NABE members said some of Trump ’s economic policies had helped the economy get a boost to GDP .
About 44 % of the respondents said policies like the 2017 tax cut and deregulation had provided a “ modest boost ” to the economy .
But nearly all of the respondents , around 90 % , said the tariffs were a net negative and “ modest drag ” to GDP .
Brian Cheung is a reporter covering the banking industry and the intersection of finance and policy for Yahoo Finance .
You can follow him on Twitter @bcheungz .
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance

Coronavirus: China Lifts Month-Long Lockdown On Wuhan As Global Cases Increase .
2020-02-24 08:03:20 +00:00 .
SEOUL , SOUTH KOREA - FEBRUARY 24 : A disinfection professional wears protective gear spray anti - septic solution against the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) at a traditional market on February 24 , 2020 in Seoul , South Korea .
South Korea has raised the coronavirus alert to the China has relaxed its quarantine of Wuhan as new cases of coronavirus were reported in Iran , Italy and South Korea .
Wuhan , the epicentre of the outbreak , was under virtual lockdown for weeks
but officials have said healthy people will be allowed to leave the city for crucial operations only .
Restrictions on movements in several places including Beijing have also been eased as rates of new infections dropped .
Meanwhile , South Korea ’s fourth - largest city Daegu grew increasingly isolated as the number of infections there increased rapidly , with Asiana Airlines and Korean Air suspending flights to the city until March 9 and March 28 respectively .
“ If we can not block the spread in the Daegu region in an effective way , there are high possibilities it would lead to a nationwide transmission , ” Vice Health Minister Kim Kang - lip told reporters .
In Europe , French Health Minister Olivier Veran said he would talk to his European counterparts soon to discuss how best to cope with a possible epidemic in Europe , after Italy reported a third death from the flu - like virus and 150 infections , from just three before Friday .
“ Tonight , there is no epidemic in France .
But there is a problematic situation at the door , in Italy , that we are watching with great attention , ” Veran told a news conference .
In mainland China , where the virus originated late last year , more than 20 province - level jurisdictions including Beijing and Shanghai , as well as provinces such as Henan and Anhui , reported zero infections , the most since the outbreak began .
China President Xi Jinping urged businesses to get back to work though he said the epidemic was still “ severe and complex , and prevention and control work is in the most difficult and critical stage ” .
Yunnan , Guangdong , Shanxi and Guizhou provinces lowered their coronavirus emergency response measures from the most serious level , joining the provinces of Gansu and Liaoning to relax restrictions on movements .

Coronavirus challenges $45 billion cruise industry .
2020-02-23 18:56:56 +00:00 .
Coronavirus concerns have pushed the $ 45 billion cruise line industry to cancel trips and reroute ships as it struggles to contain the impact from fearful travelers .
But experts say the industry will bounce back after the outbreak is contained .
“ Business is soft , people are scared to travel , ” Frank Del Rio , CEO of Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. , told investors Thursday .
He predicted the trend would continue , “ until we see the leveling off of new cases . ”
Carnival Cruise Lines , Norwegian Cruises , and Royal Caribbean Cruises all together recently announced they ’d canceled nearly 40 cruises and rerouted over 40 .
Shares are down across the three major cruise lines from 10 to 16 percent since January .
Carnival told investors if travel restrictions continue through May , it could lead to a 14 percent reduction in share price .
Royal Caribbean said additional cancellations could lead to a roughly 12 percent decrease in earnings this year .
Earlier this over 600 passengers Carnival ’s Diamond Princess were forced to remain on their ship in " chaotic conditions " after testing positive for coronavirus .
Some described their 10 - day quarantine like being held “ hostage . ”
Two passengers later died after leaving the ship .
The cruise lines have announced additional cleaning and safety measures to address the coronavirus issue .
Several cruise lines are denying boarding to passengers who have visited infected regions , and extra screenings for anyone who appears sick or may have come in contact with travelers to affected regions .
“ The industry is really erring on side of caution to reduce the risk of introducing virus on board this ship , ” Brian Salerno , spokesperson for Cruise Lines International Association trade association , said .
China is a growing market for cruise lines and currently makes up roughly 10 percent of the market , according to Salerno with the Cruise Lines International Association .
North America makes up about 50 percent of the market and Europe accounts for 25 percent , he said .
But Chinese travelers who fly to Europe then board a cruise back to the mainland make up a larger slice of customers , about 14 percent .
This slice of customers is directly impacted by cruise lines ’ travel restrictions , said Salerno .
The cruise industry has previously faced and recovered from health outbreaks before , including norovirus and chickenpox .
“ If you look at prior outbreaks what you see is kind of short - lived duration impact on booking trends in the cruise space followed by a return to normalcy over the subsequent months , ” said Sharon Zackfia , an equity analyst with William Blair .
“ The cruise industry is really resilient and I do n’t expect we ’ll be talking about this in 2022 , ” she said .

Despite a Nosebleed Valuation, Nvidia Stock Is Still a Potential Buy .
2020-02-23 14:55:47 +00:00 .
Nvidia ( NASDAQ : NVDA ) shareholders got a boost Wednesday when Bernstein analyst Stacy Rasgon upped his rating on the chipmaker to “ outperform ” from “ market perform . ”
At the same time , Rasgon raised his target price by 20 % from $ 300 to $ 360 .
NVDA stock gained more than 6 % on the news .
What ’s got the analyst so excited ?
Rasgon believes that recent gains made by the stock — it ’s up 37 % in the past three months — are based on the company ’s fundamental strengths and not the industry ’s general momentum .
The VanEck Vectors Semiconductor ETF ( NASDAQ : SMH ) has a total return of 15.4 % over the same period .
“ With the stock almost exactly back to prior peak levels , it is obvious that not growing more constructive .
Sooner , was an error , ” Rasgon wrote in his note to clients .
“ Overall though , we believe , potential forthcoming product cycles , resumption of hyperscale [ cloud computing ] spending , and potential near - term catalysts , the stock has the potential to continue upward from here , even after the solid run . ”
You know what they say , “ an object at rest stays at rest , while an object in motion stays in motion . ”
Despite the potential of the coronavirus to hit stocks like Nvidia that do a lot of business in China , investors are buying NVDA based on the bigger picture , ignoring any near - term issues that might affect sales and profits .
How long can this last ?
Reading some recent articles about artificial intelligence suggests the company has a significant runway of growth ahead of it .
Is it enough to take it to $ 400 before the end of 2020 ?
Based on its current valuation , I doubt it .
But then , when has valuation ever been a concern to investors feasting on the longest bull market in history ?
InvestorPlace contributor Larry Ramer recently discussed the impact AI is having on Nvidia ’s stock price .
Specifically , Ramer highlighted the fact that Nvidia ’s data center business saw revenues jump by 33 % on a sequential basis in the fourth quarter .
Ramer believes that AI , unlike the cryptocurrency craze of a couple of years ago , is the real deal .
On that point , we agree .
Nvidia spent a great deal of time emphasizing the company ’s AI success stories in its Q4 2019 press release .
“ Alibaba ’s and Baidu ’s recommendation engines run on NVIDIA AI , boosting inference by orders of magnitude beyond CPUs , ” the press release stated .
As if that was n’t enough , CEO and founder Jenson Huang said , “ We are well positioned for the greatest technology trends of our time . ”
With that kind of hyperbole , how can it miss hitting $ 400 by the end of the year ?
In all seriousness , I ’m bullish on Nvidia ’s future , and I have been for some time .
In my most recent article about the company in January , I argued that Nvidia is the kind of stock you buy and put in a drawer .
Ten years from now , you ’ll be delighted with the results .
And while paying almost 18 times sales for the privilege might seem excessive , you will pay 10 times sales for Advanced Micro Devices ( NASDAQ : AMD ) , which has less than one - tenth the free cash flow .
Do n’t get me wrong , I like AMD , but if I could only choose one , I ’ll continue to go with Nvidia because of its cash flow generation .
After Nvidia ’s 74 % gain in 2019 , I felt that while it might beat the market in 2020 , it would deliver more modest gains to shareholders .
Up 24 % year to date , the company ’s push into AI looks like it ’s going to pay dividends for years to come .
Fortune ’s CEO Daily newsletter discussed AI on Feb. 19 .
It pointed to a study from PwC that asked 2,000 global executives which new technologies , including AI , were important to their company ’s strategy today , and which would be most important in three years .

Japanese emperor, on birthday, expresses coronavirus concern, looks forward to Olympics .
2020-02-22 22:12:03 +00:00 .
Japan 's Emperor Naruhito speaks during a news conference on the occasion of his birthday in Tokyo TOKYO ( Reuters ) -
Japanese Emperor Naruhito said on Sunday that he was looking forward to the Tokyo Olympics in summer but that he was concerned about the spread of the new coronavirus , which has killed three in Japan and is slowly spreading across the country .
Naruhito , who turned 60 on Sunday , ascended the throne last May after his father Akihito became the first Japanese emperor in two centuries to abdicate .
The new emperor and his wife Empress Masako , 56 , a former diplomat , have put a more relaxed face on one of the world 's oldest monarchies .
Speaking at his first news conference since becoming emperor - and on his first birthday since then as well - Naruhito said the roughly 10 months since have been tumultuous for Japan , including several deadly typhoons last year and now the coronavirus .
More than 80 people around Japan have tested positive for the virus and events have been cancelled around the nation in an effort to halt the contagion .
" This new coronavirus is a concern .
I would like to send my sympathies to those who are infected and their families , " he said .
" At the same time , my thoughts are with the efforts of those who are treating them and working hard to prevent the spread of the infection .
I hope their efforts will bear fruit soon . "
Tokyo will host the Summer Olympics from July 24 for the second time , and Naruhito said the first Tokyo games , held in October 1964 when he was four years old , were one of the highlights of his childhood .
Those games , held less than 20 years after a crushing defeat in World War Two
left Tokyo in ruins , are seen in Japan as marking its return to the international community .
Naruhito watched the marathon , equestrian events , and the closing ceremony with his parents , then Crown Prince and Princess .
" At the closing ceremony , the athletes did n't march in all their separate countries ' teams but all together , and
in such good humour , " he said .
" That could be the basis of my unchanging and long - held , earnest hope for world peace . "
Naruhito said he was looking forward to this Summer 's games , which he hoped would become an equally vivid memory for all the athletes taking part .
"
And I hope this Olympics and Paralympics will deepen understanding of other people in the world and the preciousness of peace - especially among young people . "

Trump was reportedly 'furious' after officials flew Americans with the coronavirus back to the US from a quarantined cruise ship in Japan without telling him .
2020-02-22 18:26:45 +00:00 .
Passengers on the plane , which is filled with masked officials and plastic sheeting .
US President Donald Trump was " furious " after officials flew Americans with the coronavirus back to the US from a quarantined cruise ship in Japan without telling him , The Washington Post reported .
The US flew 14 patients who had tested positive for the coronavirus back to the US from the Diamond Princess cruise ship on Monday , among other US citizens who had been on the flight and chose to take the US State Department 's offer of a flight back .
The State Department had originally said that it would only fly back patients who did not test positive , and would leave those who tested positive in Japan for treatment .
But the position seemed to be reversed as the cases were only discovered after the passengers were already off the ship and on their way to the plane .
Those who tested positive were isolated in a bio - containment box in the plane and are being treated in the US , while other passengers are being quarantined for 14 days .
The isolation box for those who test positive for the coronavirus is pictured on the plane bringing back US passengers who were evacuated from the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan on January 17 .
The Post , citing anonymous officials , said that Trump and members of the US ' virus task force were told on January 15 , two days before the flight , that Americans who tested positive for the coronavirus or who had its symptoms would remain in Japan .
Trump agreed that those who tested positive for the virus should not be on the same plane as other passengers , the Post reported .
But the 14 patients who tested positive were then put on the plane without Trump 's knowledge , according to the Post .
Trump was angry that he only learned of the decision after it was made and said the decision could undermine how the US ' response to the deadly disease is perceived , administration officials told the Post .
He complained to officials including his acting chief of staff , Mick Mulvaney , the report said .

China's couriers take hands-off approach amid virus .
2020-02-22 06:15:15 +00:00 .
Uniformed drivers have remained among the most visible sights on otherwise emptied streets in China China 's armies of racing , swerving motorcycle deliverymen have been hailed as saviours during the coronavirus crisis , keeping shut - in citizens fed and stocked up .
But it 's come with major adjustments for couriers like Gao Yuchao .
A Shanghai driver for leading meal take - out service ele.me , Gao 's job has changed : his temperature is taken several times daily at restaurants and delivery points , he wears not one but two masks for protection , and frequently disinfects his delivery box .
Gone is the routine hand - off to hungry customers -- ele.me and other platforms have moved to " contactless " delivery to guard against infection , dropping parcels off outside gated communities due to paranoia over the virus .
" We 're not safe for them .
It 's understandable that some people have courier - phobia , " said Gao , 30 .
" It 's more protective and hygienic for everyone . "
Tens of millions have been effectively quarantined in the virus epicentre in central China , but communities across the country also have adopted strict curbs on movement and access to arrest the contagion 's spread .
The economy has been impacted across the board , including hugely popular food - delivery platforms .
Yet despite reduced volumes , uniformed drivers have remained among the most visible sights on otherwise emptied streets .
State - controlled media have praised them as " heroes " keeping the economy -- and people -- on life support .
In the city of Wuhan where the virus first emerged and which remains under strict quarantine , couriers have reportedly pitched in to take hospital staff to work or deliver medical supplies and groceries , drawing nationwide kudos .
Ele.me rival Meituan launched no - contact delivery in Wuhan on January 26 , later rolling it out across the country .
McDonald 's , KFC , and Starbucks are among the major players to follow suit .
Couriers arrive at pre - determined locations then step back as customers pick up their dinner .
Delivery riders typically provide a card listing the temperatures of all those involved in cooking , packing , and delivery , and stating whether the courier 's equipment had been disinfected that day .
The anxiety is sometimes palpable .
Gao says some customers , hearing his footsteps , have shouted at him to leave the food and back off .
Some couriers were reportedly diagnosed with the virus in parts of the country , sparking fear among delivery company workers and their customers .
Buying habits also have changed , with customers shifting from prepared take - out meals to groceries and hygiene supplies .
E - commerce giant JD.com has said sales of rice , dairy and fresh produce have surged , and that shipments of sterilising alcohol leapt 20 - fold since the virus outbreak exploded in late January .
Meituan has said sales of staples like rice , flour , cooking oil , and produce have soared while face masks have become the platform 's best - seller .
A Beijing official said approximately 20,000 people were delivering an average of more than 400,000 orders daily in early February .
In big cities like Shanghai , many restaurants remain closed to normal business , offering only takeout to prevent gatherings of people , and visitors to many communities pass entrances lined with bags of foods or large bottles of water waiting to be claimed .
Millions are beginning to trickle back to work in major cities after being stranded in hometowns during the Lunar New Year holiday , and Gao said things were slowly returning to normal .
" Now the situation is getting better .
Anyway , I need to get out and make money . "

Amir Khan emerges from tough year ready to regain best form .
2020-02-22 02:29:43 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE — After what had been a tough 2019 career - wise for mixed martial arts ( MMA ) fighter
Amir Khan , the Singaporean has emerged relaxed , refocused and hopefully wiser ahead of his first fight in 2020 .
The 25 - year - old was mired in a three - match losing streak in ONE Championship – the longest since he made his professional debut in 2014 – before finally tasting victory again in beating Malaysian rival Ev Ting in Singapore last November .
As the Evolve MMA Academy assistant instructor prepares to face Japan ’s Kimihiro Eto in the ONE :
King of the Jungle fight event at the Singapore Indoor Stadium on Friday ( 28 February ) , Amir told Yahoo News Singapore that he learnt a lot from last year ’s setbacks .
“ The whole year was tough for me , and I was trying to be patient in improving all aspects of my fighting , ” he said .
“ I had wanted to eliminate every doubt I had during my training , so that when I go into a competitive fight , I would have answers for whatever my opponents throw at me .
That way , I can just enter the ring and fight my head off . ”
The results did not come immediately .
After losing his ONE Championship lightweight title shot to Filipino fighter Eduard Folayang in November 2018 , Amir endured two more defeats – to Costa Rican fighter Ariel Sexton in February 2019 and to Turkish grappler Saygid Arslanaliev two months later .
His reputation as one of the top knockout fighters in the region took a beating , but he stuck to his guns under the tutelage of new Evolve MMA fight team head coach , former Shooto world champion Siyar Bahadurzada of Afghanistan .
It finally paid off near the end of the year , as Amir defeated Ting via a split decision last November , much to his relief .
“ It was n’t a great win , but it was good to have the winning momentum going again , ” he said .
“ I admit that I was having nightmares about losing again , so getting that win is important in that now I can be relaxed and focused on my training , instead of thinking about wins and losses all the time . ”
Coming up against Eto , an expert in judo and wrestling , Amir will be looking to play to his strength in striking and keep his range away from the Japanese .
If he could do that , he believes that “ 99 per cent I ’ll win the fight ” .
Despite fighting at the Indoor Stadium , he can not count on the crowd support , as the fight event will be a closed - doored occasion , due to the current COVID-19 coronavirus outbreak .
“ You ’ll want to get the energy from the home crowd , but that wo n’t be possible this time around , ” Amir said .
“ I ’ll just have to focus on dominating my opponent .
I ’ll just treat it like a sparring session during my training , no issues there . ”
Indeed , after enduring a tough year , Amir is ready to face all comers and position himself back among the contenders in the stacked lightweight division .
And he does not feel as if last year had been a wasted period in his career .
“ It ’s like a year of learning for me , in order for me to make the next leap in my career
, ” he said .
“ I want to show the world how I overcame last year , how much I ’ve improved , how I am coming back stronger even after all the setbacks .
“ All the things I trained for last year , it ’s like learning to drive a car .
Once you get the hang of it , it stays with you throughout your life .
I ’m ready for this year . ”
ONE : King of the Jungle fight card : Stay in the know on - the - go : Join Yahoo Singapore 's Telegram channel at http://t.me/YahooSingapore

Chinese researchers just confirmed that patients can transmit the coronavirus without showing symptoms. A woman passed it to 5 relatives. .
2020-02-22 01:52:01 +00:00 .
Chinese researchers have confirmed a case of asymptomatic transmission of the new coronavirus : A 20 - year - old woman from Wuhan passed it to five of her family members but never got physically sick herself .
The case study is the first concrete evidence that a person showing no symptoms can pass the coronavirus to others — a fact that could make curbing the outbreak even more challenging .
The researchers behind the finding said the 20 - year - old woman was isolated and closely observed at the Fifth People 's Hospital of Anyang .
She never become physically ill , even after her family members developed fevers .
Two of them got severe pneumonia .
For now , the woman 's asymptomatic transmission appears to be an anomaly , but health experts have documented other instances in which people tested positive for the virus without showing symptoms .
A report from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention analyzed records of all of China 's reported cases of the virus from December 8 to February 11 and found that 1.2 % of patients confirmed to be infected showed no symptoms .
A far higher portion of asymptomatic cases was found on the Diamond Princess cruise ship , where 322 of 621 people tested positive but showed no symptoms .
" It 's very clear that the people who are getting caught in that umbrella of reporting are the people that present themselves to a hospital , " Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , said at a briefing on February 6 .
" There 's another whole cohort that is either asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic . "
The 20 - year - old woman in the new case study lives in Wuhan — the city where the outbreak started — but traveled to Anyang on January 10 .
Three days later , she went with five family members to visit a sick patient ( who did not have the coronavirus ) at the Anyang District Hospital .
On January 17 , one of the woman 's family members came down with a fever and sore throat .
The following week , the other four relatives developed a fever and respiratory symptoms .
Those relatives were admitted to the Fifth People 's Hospital on January 26 .
All of the family members tested positive for the coronavirus .
The only person they 'd had contact with who had been in Wuhan was their 20 - year - old relative .
When doctors initially tested the young woman for the coronavirus , the results came back negative .
Her CT scan was normal , too .
But a day later , she tested positive for the virus even though she was n't showing any symptoms .
By February 11 , the woman still had no fever , cough , sore throat , or gastrointestinal issues .
Doctors concluded that the woman 's incubation period — the time during which she was infectious — was 19 days .
Chinese health officials previously estimated that the incubation period for the virus ranged from one to 14 days , but recent research suggests it could be as long as 24 days .
The US and many other countries have established quarantine rules for travelers from Wuhan based on that 14 - day window .
Most of the coronavirus cases so far have been mild , but the virus has killed more than 2,200 people and infected more than 76,000 .
Though the majority of cases are on the Chinese mainland , the virus has spread to 29 other countries .

Two more Australians evacuated from cruise ship are diagnosed with coronavirus .
2020-02-21 23:14:13 +00:00 .
Four people evacuated to Darwin from the Diamond Princess cruise ship have tested positive for coronavirus , authorities have confirmed .
Two Queensland women aged 54 and 55 tested positive on Friday night for the infection after leaving the ship on Thursday and will be flown to a Brisbane hospital on Saturday for further treatment .
Earlier , two other Australians were conformed to have contracted the disease .
A 78 - year - old man from Western Australia was transferred to Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital in Perth on Friday .
His wife was to travel with him but then be isolated at home for two weeks .
A 24 - year - old woman from South Australia has been transferred to Royal Adelaide Hospital .
Under the evacuation deal state governments agreed to treat any patients in their home states .
Before the medical transfers chief medical officer Brendan Murphy said they were in a clinically " reasonable " condition .
The two were among a group of six who were suffering a sore throat and runny nose after arriving at the former workers camp at Howard Springs on Thursday .
The other four have been cleared of the virus , but Professor Murphy said that could change .
" It 's possible more people could develop positive tests over the next few days .
We do n't know that , but if they do we are completely we ’ll set up to detect and manage them and isolate them , " he told reporters on Friday .
There were 170 Australians on the evacuation flight .
They will be quarantined at the facility near Darwin for two weeks after leaving the virus - hit Diamond Princess cruise ship in Yokohama .
They are being kept separate from the 266 people who were already in quarantine at Howard Springs , who were evacuated earlier this month from the epicentre of the virus at Wuhan , the capital of China 's Hubei province .
They will leave on Sunday .
Meanwhile , Australia has extended its ban on foreign travellers from China for another week as the number of coronavirus infections and deaths in Hubei province grows .
The ban is due to end on February 29 but is under ongoing consideration from the national security committee of cabinet .
Do you have a story tip ?
Email : newsroomau@yahoonews.com .
You can also follow us on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play .

Coronavirus: Time running out to stop global spread of epidemic, warns World Health Organisation .
2020-02-21 21:22:52 +00:00 .
Newly - elected Director - General of the World Health Organization ( WHO )
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus attends a news conference at the United Nations in Geneva , Switzerland : Reuters The window of opportunity to contain the wider spread of the deadly Coronavirus COVID-19 is closing , the chief of the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) has warned after cases were reported in Iran and Lebanon .
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , the WHO ’s director general , said he still believed the virus could be contained – but added “ The window of opportunity is narrowing , so we need to act quickly before it closes completely . ”
Reiterating previous assertions on the ongoing risk of the virus which has claimed the lives of more than 2,200 , he added : “ This outbreak could go in any direction .
“ If we do well , we can avert any serious crisis , but if we squander the opportunity then we will have a serious problem on our hands . "
Mr Ghebreyesus went on to note it was " very concerning " that Iran had reported 18 cases and 4 deaths in just the past two days after the UN ’s global health body supplied testing kits to Tehran .
The disease is believed to have originated in the city of Wuhan in China ’s Hubei province where the majority of the 76,000 cases of the virus have been reported .
Despite initial cases being reported in December 2019 , the WHO held off on declaring the virus a public health emergency of international concern until 30 January – saying at the time “ Our greatest concern is the potential for the virus to spread to countries with weaker health systems ” .

Two more ship evacuees contract virus .
2020-02-21 13:33:02 +00:00 .
Two more people brought back to Australia from a cruise ship in Japan have contracted coronavirus Four people evacuated to Darwin from the Diamond Princess cruise ship have tested positive for coronavirus , authorities have confirmed .
Two Queensland women aged 54 and 55
tested positive on Friday night for the infection after leaving the ship on Thursday and will be flown to a Brisbane hospital for further treatment Earlier , two other Australians were conformed to have contracted the disease .
A 78 - year - old man from Western Australia will be transferred to Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital in Perth on Friday .
His wife will travel with him but then be isolated at home for two weeks .
The other patient is a 24 - year - old woman from South Australia , who will be transferred to Royal Adelaide Hospital .
Both remain well and are being housed in a separate isolation unit at Howard Springs outside Darwin .
Public health authorities from their home states are organising the medical transfers .
Despite clearing multiple screenings for the virus before being taken to the Howard Springs facility , Australian Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy said the cases are not surprising .
" There has been ongoing detection of infection on the Diamond Princess cruise ship over the last few days , so it 's not unexpected that some people might have been incubating the virus , " he told reporters in Canberra on Friday .
" It 's possible more people could develop positive tests over the next few days .
We do n't know that , but if they do we are completely well set up to detect and manage them and isolate them . "
Prof Murphy said both evacuees were in a clinically " reasonable " condition .
Four other people tested for coronavirus after returning to Australia on Thursday have been cleared and released from isolation back into general accommodation .
All six who had displayed cold - like symptoms were separated from others on the flight .
Acting NT chief health officer Dianne Stephens said the pair 's symptoms could slowly worsen over several days .
" Both these individuals will be taken into their hospital systems ... to see whether or not they 're going to improve or deteriorate , " she told reporters .
" Then their own health systems have systems in place to manage the Covid-19 infected patients . "
Some 170 Australians , most aged in their 60s and 70s , will be quarantined for two weeks after leaving the coronavirus - hit Diamond Princess cruise ship in Yokohama .
Meanwhile , Australia has extended its ban on foreign travellers from China for another week as the number of infections and deaths in the coronavirus epicentre of Hubei province continues to grow .
The government is reportedly considering easing the ban for students .
Prof Murphy said it was up to the government to consider the risks and benefits of doing so .
" At the moment our advice is that it should be maintained and reviewed in the next seven days , " he said .
Prime Minister Scott Morrison has ruled out compensation to tourism operators and universities hit by the travel ban .
" Coronavirus ' impact is right across the country , " he told reporters on Friday .
"
The taxpayer ... is not an insurer for these things . "

Korea Trade Data Show Virus Disruption to China Supply Chain .
2020-02-21 02:13:36 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
South Korea ’s early trade data suggest the coronavirus epidemic has started to disrupt the region ’s supply chains , as many Chinese factories remain shut , complicating deliveries of parts and components essential to the industrial world .
South Korea ’s daily average shipments fell 9.3 % during the first twenty days of February from a year earlier , the customs office said Friday .
Total shipments to China , South Korea ’s biggest trade partner , fell 3.7 % despite the period having more working days than last year .
Imports from China plunged 19 % .
“ The coronavirus appears to have hit trade quite a bit , ” said Lee Hong - bae , a professor of international trade at South Korea ’s Dong - Eui University .
“ The fall in both exports and imports with China shows the supply chain is sputtering , and it probably wo n’t be until the second half of the year we see it back on track . ”
South Korea ’s overall exports rose 12 % during Feb. 1 - 20 , boosted by calendar distortions .
The timing of the Lunar New Year holiday added three business days to the month this year in many Asian economies , roughly a 25 % increase in work time compared with 2019 in basic terms .
Before the epidemic spread within and beyond China , global trade recovery had been forecast for early 2020 .
Now that picture is getting upended , with policy makers scrambling to gauge the enormity of the fallout and the measures needed .
Central banks in Asia have stepped up action , with Indonesia , Philippines , and Thailand cutting rates recently , and others like Singapore planning significant fiscal stimulus .
Speculation is rising that the Bank of Korea could deliver a cut next week .
“ The data is likely to understate the extent of the fall in Chinese demand , ” said Rory Green , an economist at TS Lombard before the customs report .
“ A prolonged shutdown then evidently will weigh on Korea ’s own exports . ”
South Korea ’s President Moon Jae - in warned the impact from the novel virus could be bigger and longer - lasting than a 2015 epidemic that killed 38 people in South Korea and hit growth .
Back then , the central bank responded with a rate cut and the government enacted a 11.6 trillion won ( $ 9.8 billion ) extra budget .
To contact the reporter on this story : Sam Kim in Seoul at skim609@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Paul Jackson at pjackson53@bloomberg.net , Jiyeun Lee , Jason Clenfield For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

More than half of all coronavirus cases outside China are from the Diamond Princess, but the cruise ship is already planning to set sail again in April .
2020-02-20 20:37:25 +00:00 .
Former passengers of the Diamond Princess cruise ship board a taxi to leave after spending weeks in quarantine due to coronavirus fears .
The Diamond Princess cruise ship now houses more than half of all coronavirus cases outside mainland China , the World Health Organization said on Wednesday .
The cruise ship has been quarantined in Japan 's Yokohama Bay since February 3 , and 634 passengers have contracted the illness .
Two people from the ship — an 87 - year - old Japanese man and an 84 - year - old Japanese woman — died on Tuesday , Japanese officials reported .
Beijing 's National Health Commission said on Wednesday that there are more than 74,500 coronavirus patients in mainland China , and some 2,118 people are dead .
Outside China , 1,076 coronavirus cases have been reported in 26 countries , the WHO tweeted .
This update comes on the heels of infectious - diseases expert Kentaro Iwata criticizing the cleanliness level — or lack thereof — aboard the Diamond Princess .
Upon visiting the vessel , Iwata described the abysmal hygiene conditions and infection controls that had made him " so scared " of contracting the coronavirus .
Despite being front and center in the ongoing coronavirus crisis , the ship 's operator Princess Cruises says it 'll be business as usual from April 29 — after the vessel has been cleaned — in time for Japan 's Golden Week holidays , the Wall Street Journal reported .
" The expectation is that the ship would be fully sanitized and then taken into dry dock for a period of time , " said Negin Kamali , public - relations director for Princess Cruises .
She said the 116,000 - ton cruise liner will stay in Japan , where it was constructed .
It remains unclear what the cleaning process looks like for a ship that has been home to ill passengers .
According to the Wall Street Journal , bouts of sicknesses , such as gastrointestinal illnesses , show up occasionally on cruise ships .
But they do n't prevent ships from being kept in service due to the large investment each vessel represents .
" Normal practice in the case of norovirus or Legionnaires ' disease is to pinpoint and isolate the source of the illness , then cancel or postpone the next cruise and thoroughly disinfect the ship from top to bottom once all the passengers are off , " Andrew Coggins , a cruise expert at Pace University in New York , told the Journal .
Carnival Corp. owns Princess Cruises as well as Holland America Line , which operates the Westerdam , another cruise ship that 's been impacted by the coronavirus outbreak .
The Westerdam was stranded at sea for nearly two weeks as five ports denied it entry before Cambodia allowed it to dock on February 13 .
Since then , all guests and crew members have tested negative for the illness , and have been given the green light to travel internationally .
Neither Princess Cruises nor Holland America Line replied to Insider 's request for comment .

What's happening in market sentiment is a 'healthy situation': strategist .
2020-02-20 19:00:40 +00:00 .
So far this year , it has n’t taken much of a blow to knock investor sentiment back down after bubbling up – and that ’s a good sign for stocks , according to at least one strategist .
“ Recently , you did start to see some real extremes in terms of optimism , particularly in behavioral measures of investor sentiment in mid - January , ” Liz Ann Sonders , chief investment strategist for Charles Schwab , told Yahoo Finance on The Ticker .
“ And then you got that kind of knocked down a bit with the onset of the coronavirus . ”
The S&P 500 pulled back just over 3 % between Jan. 17 and Jan. 31 as coronavirus cases escalated , unwinding some of the index ’s year - to - date gains and briefly turning it negative on an intraday basis .
While ultimately short - lived , that pullback acted as a reset button on investor optimism .
bringing sentiment measures back down “ at worst to neutral , ” Sonders said .
“ What I think is unique in this recent period of time is , it does n’t take much of a pullback in the market to bring back some of that euphoria , ” Sonders said .
“ And I think that has been , at least in the near - term , a stabilizing force . ”
A quick recalibration in investor sentiment has been a hallmark of trading over much of the past decade , with optimism remaining well - contained even amid a steady march higher in the S&P 500 , Sonders said .
“ Sentiment ’s been an interesting animal really in this entire bull market , arguably up until the beginning of 2018 , ” Sonders said .
“ Sentiment really never got to anything resembling euphoria , which I think is one of the reasons why this has been such an elongated bull market .
It ’s been climbing that wall of worry .
There was sort of the default position of skepticism . ”
For a brief period in 2018 , that trend did start to shift , however .
The S&P 500 ’s 19 % return in 2017 coincided with a record - low year for volatility , pushing investor sentiment higher through the start of 2018 .
That reversed in February 2018 when the Cboe Volatility Index , a widely tracked gauge of near - term volatility for the S&P 500 , skyrocketed to a more than two - year high of 50.3 before sharply receding to 24.4 , roiling market participants that had bet against volatility .
Signals of a repeat of that incidence , however , appear to be off the table for now , according to Sonders .
And indeed , last week when the S&P 500 rose 1.6 % , investors returned to net selling after four straight weeks of buying , according to a report from Bank of America , indicating an absence of overwhelming exuberance as buying cooled .
“ I ’d rather have it be that way than , say , in the late 1990s , where no matter what the news was , no matter what the market did , investors were in that euphoric mode , ” Sonders said .
That time , that euphoria ultimately led to the dot - com crash at the turn of the century .
“ This time is different .
It ’s a new paradigm , ” Sonders said .
“ So that skepticism that comes back more quickly is actually a relatively healthy situation . ”
Emily McCormick is a reporter for Yahoo Finance .
Follow her on Twitter : @emily_mcck Find live stock market quotes and the latest business and finance news

The biggest breakdown yet of novel coronavirus cases suggests that 80% are mild. Some patients don't show symptoms at all. .
2020-02-20 04:28:22 +00:00 .
Patients infected with the coronavirus rest at a temporary hospital in the Wuhan Sports Center in central China 's Hubei Province , February 17 , 2020 .
The death toll from the new coronavirus that originated in China crossed 2,000 this week .
But new research suggests that most cases of the illness are mild .
A new report from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention analyzed records of all of China 's reported cases of the virus from December 8 to February 11 — a total of 72,314 patients .
( For the latest case total and death toll , see Business Insider 's live updates . )
The researchers found that 80.9 % of the confirmed cases were mild .
Those patients might experience a fever or dry cough , but they are n't likely to have difficulty breathing or develop a severe lung infection .
The study also found that infected people can show no symptoms at all — that was the case for 1.2 % of the patients involved .
A far higher portion of asymptomatic cases , meanwhile , has been found on the Diamond Princess cruise ship .
The ship has been host to the largest number of diagnosed COVID-19 cases outside China : at least 621 .
But 322 of those patients showed no symptoms , according to Japan 's Ministry of Health .
It 's possible that those people could develop symptoms later , but they also offer evidence that many coronavirus carriers in China might be going undetected , since they probably would n't visit a doctor without experiencing symptoms .
( Researchers still are n't sure whether people can spread the virus when they have no symptoms . )
Health officials have suspected this for weeks .
" There 's another whole cohort that is either asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic , " Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , said at a briefing in early February .
" We 're going to see a diminution in the overall death rate . "
Of the patients in the Chinese CDC report , only 2,087 — 2.3 % of all cases — developed severe symptoms like respiratory failure , septic shock , or organ failure .
All of the deaths came from that group .
" In severe cases , you basically flood your lungs and you ca n't breathe , " Dr. Matthew Frieman , an associate professor who researchers coronaviruses at the University of Maryland School of Medicine , told National Geographic .
" That 's how people are dying . "
Overall , however , the COVID-19 fatality rate is far lower than that of past coronavirus epidemics .
Based on the ratio of deaths to confirmed cases so far , it appears to be around 2 % .
Severe acute respiratory syndrome ( SARS ) , by contrast , killed 9.6 % of those infected , and Middle East respiratory syndrome ( MERS ) killed 34.4 % of cases .
Fauci and other experts , however , think it 's likely that fatality rate will drop as more mild cases are counted .
Researchers have also found evidence that some patients have less typical symptoms , like gastrointestinal issues , that can mislead medical workers .
" My guess is there 's a delay in a lot of the reporting , " Aaron Milstone , an epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins University , previously told Business Insider .
" If people are sick and they 're not getting tested , then we do n't know about them . "
On Tuesday , officials in China 's Hubei province , where the virus originated , announced they would track and investigate people who purchased fever and cough medicine in an attempt to find unreported cases of the coronavirus .

Super Retail underpayments rise by $8m .
2020-02-20 01:32:58 +00:00 .
Super Retail Group , which includes Supercheap Auto and BCF , saw a 20 per cent drop in H1 net profit Super Retail Group 's shares have jumped more than 10 per cent despite announcing a 20 per cent drop in first - half profit and admitting its underpayments problem is worse than first thought .
Net profit for the company , which owns Rebel Sport , Supercheap Auto , BCF and Macpac , fell to $ 57.4 million despite modest revenue growth of 2.9 per cent to $ 1.44 billion .
Super Retail Group announced in its results on Thursday it was adding another $ 8 million to the $ 53.2 million it already has to give back to staff .
It comes after Wesfarmers admitted to $ 24 million in staff underpayments and Coles said said it was expecting a $ 20 million hit after revealing managers had been underpaid during the past six years .
The group has updated its total estimate for team member back payments from $ 53.2 million as at December 2018 to $ 61.2 million as at December 28 , 2019 , excluding execution costs .
The estimate increase of $ 8 million since December 2018 has resulted in a $ 9.5 million after - tax expense in the half .
The Queensland - based company said total costs to execute the remediation including the prior period were $ 8.6 million after tax .
Super Retail Group said that while the total amount of retail manager and set - up team member underpayments was lower than initially estimated , it had identified additional team members also impacted by overtime underpayments .
Supercheap Auto sales increased by 3.7 per cent to $ 550.7 million and Rebel sales increased by 3.6 per cent to $ 542.8 million , while BCF sales increased by 0.7 per cent to $ 283.5 million .
However , Macpac sales fell by 0.9 per cent to $ 66.5 million as like - for - like sales in Australia decreased by 9.5 per cent following the impact of summer bushfires on peak trading .
On the impacts of the coronavirus , the company said while a " significant proportion " of the group 's products were sourced from China , it used only two factories in Wuhan , the Hubei province city at the epicentre of the outbreak .
" There is no expectation of a material impact on availability of product in the short term given current inventory levels , " it told the ASX on Thursday .
" The group will continue to monitor ongoing developments in China and undertake appropriate contingency planning . "
Chief executive Anthony Heraghty said following the " extraordinary weather events " of the summer , he was now seeing positive trends in the business , with sales momentum improving in Supercheap Auto , Rebel , and Macpac .
Super Retail Group announced an interim dividend of 21.5 cents per share , fully franked , in line with a year ago .
The company 's stock had risen by 4.28 per cent , or 39 cents , to $ 9.50 at 1155 AEDT , having risen as high as $ 10.19 at 1049 AEDT .

ETFs to Gain as Homebuilders Confidence is Near All-Time High .
2020-02-19 23:16:59 +00:00 .
The National Association of Home Builders ’ monthly confidence index has managed to remain near the highest index reading since June 1999 that was recorded in December 2019 .
Per the monthly National Association of Home Builders ( NAHB)/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index ( HMI ) , builder confidence dropped just one point to 74 in February compared with 75 in January , 76 in December and 62 in the year - ago period ( read : Housing ETFs Soar on Upbeat Earnings With More Room to Run ) .
Notably , all the three components of the index had dropped by a point too .
The current sales conditions came in at 80 , the buyer traffic stood at 57 , with sales expectations coming to 79 .
Regionally , in the Northeast , the index rose five points to 67 .
Moreover , the South index increased a couple of points to 79 .
Meanwhile , the Western index was down four points to 82 , with the Midwest falling by five points to 62 ( read : Homebuilder ETFs Shining in 2020 : Will This Continue ? ) .
After three rate cuts in 2019 , the Fed hinted at keeping interest rates unchanged in 2020 unless there is any major change in the economic outlook .
It is widely believed that declining mortgage rates have helped the housing sector , as lower borrowing costs are making new houses more affordable .
Fears surrounding the aggravating coronavirus outbreak are also inducing low mortgage rates .
This is because mortgage rates are guided by the treasury yields that are sliding due to a rise in demand for safe havens ( read : Play These Bond ETFs to Keep the Coronavirus Fear at Bay ) .
Builders continue to bear the brunt of rising development and construction costs .
They are still grappling with regulatory burdens , deficit of lots and lack of skilled labor .
Against the backdrop , let ’s take a look at a few homebuilder ETFs .
iShares U.S. Home Construction ETF ITB — up 12.1 % year to date This fund provides exposure to U.S. companies that manufacture residential homes by tracking the Dow Jones U.S. Select Home Construction Index .
With an AUM of $ 1.47 billion , it holds a basket of 44 stocks , heavily focused on the top two firms .
The product charges 42 basis points ( bps ) in annual fees .
It has a Zacks ETF Rank # 2 ( Buy ) , with a High - risk outlook ( read :
Should You Buy Homebuilder ETFs Now ? ) .
A popular choice in the homebuilding space , XHB follows the S&P Homebuilders Select Industry Index .
The fund holds about 34 securities in its basket .
It has an AUM of $ 846.6 million .
The fund charges 35 bps in annual fees and carries a Zacks ETF Rank of 2 , with a High - risk outlook ( read : Sector ETFs to Watch Out for Until Phase-2 Trade Deal ) .
This fund follows the Dynamic Building & Construction Intellidex Index , holding well - diversified 30 stocks in its basket , with each accounting for less than a 5.58 % share .
It has amassed assets worth $ 114.7 million .
Expense ratio is 0.60 % .
It is a Zacks # 2 Ranked ETF with a High - risk outlook ( see : all the Materials ETFs here ) .
Want key ETF info delivered straight to your inbox ?
Zacks ' free Fund Newsletter will brief you on top news and analysis , as well as top - performing ETFs , each week .
Get it free > > Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research ?
Today , you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days .
Click to get this free report SPDR S&P Homebuilders ETF ( XHB ): ETF Research Reports To read this article on Zacks.com click here .
Zacks Investment Research Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research ?
Today , you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days .
Click to get this free report

Foreign pilots at Chinese airlines return home on unpaid leave as demand plummets .
2020-02-19 09:30:56 +00:00 .
BEIJING / SYDNEY ( Reuters ) - Foreign pilots at some Chinese airlines have returned to their home countries and are considering other jobs after being placed on unpaid leave as demand falls because of the coronavirus , affected flight crew told Reuters .
Meanwhile , Chinese pilots with greater job security said their income has been sharply reduced because most of their pay is based on flying hours .
Data firm OAG estimates about 80 % of scheduled airline capacity to , from and within China has been cut this week because of SARS - CoV-2 , the virus that has killed more than 2,000 people .
Chinese airlines have been the hardest hit .
Major employers of foreign pilots , including China Southern Airlines Co Ltd < 600029.SS > and HNA Group 's Hainan Airlines Holding Co Ltd < 600221.SS > , have acted swiftly to cut their losses , according to pilots and industry experts .
China Southern did not respond immediately to a request for comment , and HNA declined to comment .
" All the foreign pilots are on leave until the virus situation gets better , " said an expatriate captain at China Southern who , like all of those who spoke to Reuters , requested anonymity because he was not authorised to speak with media .
" For the moment we are all in our home countries . "
Expats are typically paid more than local staff and work on contracts , which means they are more expendable in a downturn , industry experts said .
" We have seen pilots heading back to Australia in January and February due to the stand down and seeking new roles , " said Kirsty Ferguson , the head of Sydney - based airline interview coaching firm Pinstripe Solutions .
As China 's airline sector ballooned , it imported foreign experience : the number of foreign pilots flying with Chinese airlines more than doubled to over 1,500 between 2010 and 2019 , according the Civil Aviation Administration of China .
China will need another 124,000 pilots in the next 20 years , according to Boeing , as an expanding middle class drives demand for air travel .
But foreign pilots said being put on leave without pay makes it less likely they 'll return when demand recovers .
A foreign captain at Fuzhou Airlines , part of HNA Group , said he was placed on unpaid leave when the virus hit and was concerned it would be permanent .
" They hope people will find other jobs as none can go without pay forever , " he said .
" This way they ' save their face , ' and secondly they do n't feel obliged to dismiss you properly according to the contract . "
The pilot said that he was looking for jobs closer to home , but that so far those options paid less than in China .
Foreign pilots can make more than $ 300,000 a year there , making it one of the best - paying markets in the world .
A pilot at Tianjin Airlines , also part of HNA Group , said he was told it would be at least three to four months before the carrier starts recalling expatriate captains .
He has found work with another foreign airline , he said .
Hainan has also placed more than 200 foreign cabin crew members on 30 days of unpaid leave which could be extended , an affected flight attendant said .
A local pilot at China Southern said he was barely flying and as a result was receiving only his base salary , roughly 1/6 to 1/8 of his normal pay .
" What we can do now is keep a good mentality and enjoy the company of our family at home , " he said .
" Eat well , sleep well and exercise well and keep learning .
Build up the energy so that we 'll be well prepared for whatever comes later . "

China to offer trade war tariff exemptions on 700 US farm, medical, energy products amid coronavirus .
2020-02-18 07:10:15 +00:00 .
China announced on Tuesday that it will allow importers to apply for exemptions to additional trade war tariffs on nearly 700 types of goods from the United States , including farm and energy products , as the country battles the coronavirus outbreak that has infected over 70,000 people .
Importers can apply for tariff exemptions starting from March 2 , according to a statement released by the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council .
The exemptions would only be effective for one year , subject to approval , with the commission adding that each application would need to undergo an approval process .
“ [ The exemptions are ] to support enterprises to import goods from the US based upon their business considerations , ” the commission said in their statement .
The list contains 697 products lines , from soybeans , pork , and beef , to liquefied natural gas and crude oil , which have all been drawn into the tariff battle between the world ’s two largest economies .
It also includes dozens of types of medical equipment such as thermometers , which are vital to help contain the coronavirus , which causes the disease known as Covid-19 and has killed over 1,800 people .
China is trying to source supplies of meat and medical products from across the globe as the country ’s own output is unable to meet demand .
The Ministry of Commerce said earlier this month that the country would vigorously purchase meat products from other countries and regions to ensure adequate supply in China , while it would also import more medical supplies as well as daily necessities .
Before the new tariff exemptions , both Beijing and Washington had halved additional duties on certain respective imports from February 14 , when the phase one trade deal signed in December officially took effect .
China announced at the start of February that it would halve additional tariffs on US$ 75 billion of American products imposed late last year , one of the first signs that Beijing was implementing the phase one deal with the US despite the coronavirus outbreak .
Beijing cut a 10 per cent punitive tariff to 5 per cent , and a 5 per cent tariff to 2.5 per cent on February 14 , according to China ’s Ministry of Finance .
In response , the US halved a 15 per cent additional tariff on US$ 120 billion of Chinese goods to 7.5 per cent .
On Sunday , China also announced that it would remove the import ban on all US poultry products with its own farms under threat from the deadly H5N1 bird flu .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live Q&A.
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
This article China to offer trade war tariff exemptions on 700 US farm , medical , energy products amid coronavirus first appeared on South China Morning Post For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Hubei residents banned from leaving homes as province introduces tough new coronavirus curbs .
2020-02-17 18:37:57 +00:00 .
Authorities in the Chinese province at the centre of the Covid-19 outbreak have announced tough new measures to try to halt the disease .
Residents in Wuhan and other cities in Hubei are effectively banned from leaving home under an extreme lockdown unveiled by the new provincial government on Sunday .
Local authorities across the province announced the new measures hours after a meeting chaired by new party chief Ying Yong .
The harsh restrictions , on top of numerous “ wartime ” measures already in place , were necessary to fix loopholes and combat the spread of the disease , said Ying .
According to mainland media reports , Ying , who also chairs the province ’s prevention and control command , admitted at a meeting on Sunday afternoon that despite the tightened controls , Hubei still faces a grim , uphill battle with six cities having more than 1,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19 .
“ We must understand the severity and complexity of the disease control , which stands at a critical window of opportunity , ” Ying said , according to Hubei Daily .
“ Other cities and counties are also important battlefields .
They are also crucial ” .
The former Shanghai mayor , a protégé of President Xi Jinping , replaced Jiang Chaoliang on Thursday amid mounting public anger over and international concern over Beijing ’s ability to tackle the worst public health problem since the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome .
On Monday Hubei reported 100 further deaths and 1,933 confirmed cases of Covid-19 as the overall death toll passed 1,700 .
The whole country reported 2,055 new cases , a slight upturn after three days of declines , and 106 deaths .
Partial lockdown measures have been imposed in over 80 cities in nearly 20 provinces and municipalities .
The Hubei provincial government issued four edicts after the meeting , introducing fresh bans on movement across cities and rural areas .
It also pledged to tighten the flow of information and clamp down on rumour - mongering in the name of maintaining social stability .
In what Ying ’s government described as the “ strictest 24 - hour lock - down management ” , barriers and checkpoints will be set up to isolate all residential compounds and communities , housing estates , and villages , with only one entrance allowed .
Unlike the partial lockdown in other major cities , such as Beijing , Shanghai and Shenzhen , residents in Hubei will not be allowed to leave their homes and only one person per household will be allowed out to buy essential supplies every three days .
In Xiaogan , which reported the second highest number of infections after Wuhan , people who leave home without permission will be detained for 10 days .
Those who need to go out due to sickness , pregnancy or other emergencies must seek official approval in advance .
Fang Fang , a renowned writer based in Wuhan , confirmed in an online journal that people at the compound where she lives were barred from going out and had to rely on deliveries sanctioned by the grass - roots authorities .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live Q&A.
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
This article Hubei residents banned from leaving homes as province introduces tough new coronavirus curbs first appeared on South China Morning Post For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

China clamps down on coronavirus rumours, Beijing doctors warned over ‘misleading the public’ .
2020-02-17 10:51:33 +00:00 .
Three state - backed doctor associations in Beijing published a joint letter last week telling doctors in China ’s capital city “ not to disseminate information that is still in the research stage or views that are controversial ” in relation to the novel coronavirus , reflecting the authorities ’ intent to tighten control over details relating to the outbreak .
The letter by the Beijing Medical Association , Beijing Medical Doctor Association , and the Beijing Association of Preventive Medicine was dated on Wednesday but was only published over the weekend , a week after the death of Li Wenliang , the young doctor who was reprimanded by police for “ spreading rumours ” when he tried to warn people about the virus outbreak in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December .
Li ’s death has led to an outpouring of emotion , and promoted a group of academics to publicly call for freedom of speech and information .
But the message contained in the letter to the city ’s doctors is that they should be highly discreet when distributing information about the coronavirus , which has infected over 71,000 people and killed nearly 1,800 across the country as of Sunday .
This figure includes 381 infected and four death in Beijing .
“ Beijing is the capital city of China with an extraordinary task of containing the outbreak … any information about the outbreak could affect the implementation of preventive measures and general public ’s mentality , ” said the letter .
“ The medical staff ’s understanding of novel coronavirus and disseminating of related information are extremely important in influencing and guiding the public . ”
As such , doctors were advised “ not to mislead the public ” and to refrain from publishing any unauthorised information .
They were also told to “ resist all kinds of rumours and clarify and guide false opinions and discussions ” , while they were reminded to protect the privacy of patients .
The message came amid a public outcry over China ’s handling the of the virus , which causes the disease officially known as Covid-19 .
Eight doctors in Wuhan , including Li , were reprimanded by the local police in December for “ spreading rumours ” after discussing the issue online .
China only confirmed on Friday that over 1,700 health care workers had been infected with the disease , with many believed to have contacted the virus in the early weeks of the outbreak when there was a shortage of protective equipment and the authorities said there had been few cases of human - to - human transmission .
During the severe acute respiratory syndrome ( Sars ) epidemic in 2003 , Jiang Yanyong , a doctor at 301 Hospital in Beijing , publicised a cover - up of the epidemic , becoming the face of China ’s whistle - blowers .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live Q&A.
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
This article China clamps down on coronavirus rumours , Beijing doctors warned over ‘ misleading the public ’ first appeared on South China Morning Post For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Presidents Day, SpaceX Starlink launch, Daytona 500 restarts: 5 Things to know Monday .
2020-02-17 08:47:44 +00:00 .
The third Monday of every February is a time to remember presidents and , if you 're fortunate , enjoy a day off or take advantage of some holiday sales .
Presidents Day , also known as Washington 's Birthday , was originally established in the 1880s to honor President George Washington , who was born on Feb. 22 , 1732 .
In 1971 , it was moved to Mondays as part of the Uniform Monday Holiday Act .
Since then , the day has become widely known as Presidents Day and viewed as a time to recognize all presidents , past and present .
It 's a federal holiday , which means many government institutions will be closed .
After SpaceX experienced a delayed launch of its next Starlink mission Sunday due to hardware issues , the Falcon 9 rocket is now scheduled to lift off from Launch Complex 40 about 10:04 a.m. Monday .
The Air Force 's 45th Weather Squadron is expecting 80 % " go " conditions for the attempt .
After liftoff , the rocket 's first stage will return for a computer - controlled landing on the drone ship named Of Course I Still Love You in the Atlantic Ocean .
It will be its 50th landing to date .
Monday 's flight will mark the fifth mission for Starlink , which will boast 300 spacecraft in low - Earth orbit after the satellites separate from the upper stage about an hour after liftoff .
The biggest and most anticipated race of the NASCAR Cup Series season will have to wait until Monday .
The remainder of the Daytona 500 is set to restart at 4 p.m. ET and will be broadcast on FOX due to severe rain halting activities .
.
Following ceremonial pre - race events with President Donald Trump and a short rain delay , drivers raced just 20 of the 200 scheduled laps before NASCAR officials threw out a red flag because of more rain .
NASCAR made one more attempt to bring drivers back to their cars until another downpour hit the speedway , preventing the race from continuing the same day it started .
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was visiting the Angolan capital Luanda on Monday , part of a trip to three African countries as the Trump administration tries to counter the growing interest of China , Russia and other global powers on the continent .
Pompeo arrived in the West African nation of Senegal on Sunday and from Angola , will travel to Ethiopia .
He said the Trump administration is working to determine what level of American military presence is needed in West Africa to counter the rise of extremist violence in the Sahel region .
His trip comes after the Trump administration ’s announcement last month that it will no longer be issuing immigrant visas to citizens of Nigeria - Africa ’s most populous nation - as well as Eritrea , Tanzania and Sudan .
“ This is the challenge Pompeo ’s facing in Africa , explaining the contradictory messages out of Washington , ” said Mike O’Hanlon , director of the Brookings Africa Security Initiative , in a briefing .
The United States will spend Monday preparing to evacuate American passengers under quarantine and finalize plans to start a new test process due to coronavirus on board Princess Cruises ' Diamond Princess in Japan .
The evacuation comes days before the required two - week quarantine is supposed to end on Wednesday .
There are about 400 American passengers on board the ship , according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
Passengers who test positive for coronavirus will be transferred to a medical facility , but it 's unclear if more screening will be needed for those whose tests are negative .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Presidents Day , SpaceX Starlink launch , Daytona 500 resumes : 5 Things to know Monday

Nintendo Is Likely to Suffer Global Switch Shortages From Virus .
2020-02-17 05:06:13 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Nintendo Co. is likely to struggle to supply sufficient Switch consoles to its U.S. and European markets as soon as April due to a production bottleneck caused by the coronavirus outbreak , according to people with knowledge of the company ’s supply chain .
Limited component supply coming out of China is affecting output at a Nintendo assembly partner ’s factory in Vietnam , which the gaming giant primarily uses to build consoles for the U.S. , said the people , asking not to be named because the details are private .
A shortage of components this month would affect Switch units scheduled for arrival in April , after existing inventory and current shipments of the console have sold through .
The potential slowdown would deal a blow to the Kyoto - based company , which is preparing to release a major new installment in the hit Animal Crossing game franchise on Mar. 20 .
These first - party titles are the lifeblood of the Switch system ’s popularity , sustaining its sales momentum as it enters its fourth year since launch .
Nintendo apologized earlier this month when it announced that Switch hardware and accessory shipments to Japan would be constrained by a virus - imposed production shutdown in China .
Those products are now out of stock across many Japanese retailers , due also in part to aggressive cashback campaigns by local mobile - payment providers .
“ We do not see any major impact on the shipment to the U.S. currently , but we will remain vigilant and take steps if necessary , ” a Nintendo spokesperson told Bloomberg News .
“ It ’s possible the supply would be affected by the virus if it becomes more widespread and prolonged . ”
Switch shipments arriving into the U.S. in February and March wo n’t pose any issue because they ’ve already been dispatched from Asia , said the people familiar with Nintendo ’s operations .
But difficulty may arise with accumulating enough units for the boats departing later this month or next , which would be arriving in the U.S. in April .
Shipments would not completely stop , but would be greatly reduced , according to one person .
The U.S. is the company ’s biggest market , accounting for 43 % of its core business , while Europe and Japan account for 27 % and 21 % , respectively .
Suppliers within Chinese factories , which provide components to a wide variety of electronics products , said they expect the virus disruption to last at least a few more weeks before they can resume full operation .
Speaking on condition of anonymity , they said their primary concern is resuming production too early and finding a coronavirus infection among their returned workers , leading to an outbreak on factory floors .
This exact fear was also voiced by Apple Inc.-supplier Foxconn in a recent conversation with investors .
‘ Nightmare ’ for Global Tech : Virus Fallout Is Just Beginning One supplier said that the supply - demand balance for its component was tight even before the virus outbreak , meaning even a few weeks of reduced production will set it back severely in fulfilling customer orders .
The person said they may be forced to decline some orders if customers resume operations all at once and ask for component at the same time .
To contact the reporter on this story :
Takashi Mochizuki in Tokyo at tmochizuki15@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story : Edwin Chan at echan273@bloomberg.net , Vlad Savov , Peter Elstrom For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

U.S Mortgage Rates Rise for the First Time in 4-Weeks .
2020-02-16 15:22:04 +00:00 .
Mortgage rates rose slightly in the week ending 13th February , ending a run of 3 consecutive weeks in the red .
In spite of the weekly rise , mortgage rates were at the lowest level since 26th October 2019 , when 30 - year rates had also stood at 3.47 % .
Historically , rates sat just 15 basis points above a historical low 3.32 % back in November 2012 , according to figures released by Freddie Mac .
Compared to this time last year , 30 - year fixed rates were down by 90 basis points .
30 - year fixed rates were also down by 147 basis points since November 2018 ’s most recent peak of 4.94 % .
It was a relatively busy week on the economic data front .
Key stats through the 1st half of the week included December JOLTs job openings and January inflation figures .
Outside of the numbers , FED Chair Powell delivered testimony to Congress , which also influenced U.S Treasuries .
Market sentiment towards COVID-19 updates from China was the key driver through the week , however .
After a testy start to the week , risk appetite returned on Tuesday , sinking Treasury yields as numbers from China suggested that the spread of the virus was easing .
U.S equities hit record highs in response , before a pullback through the 2nd half of the week .
The weekly average rates for new mortgages as of 13th February were quoted by Freddie Mac to be : According to Freddie Mac , mortgage rates sat at close to a 5 - decade low .
Refinance activity was on the rise , surging to the highest level in 7 - years .
The upswing in refinancing and strong purchase activity meant that total mortgage demand remains robust , reflecting a solid economic backdrop .
For the week ending 7th February , rates were quoted to be : Weekly figures released by the Mortgage Bankers Association showed that the Market Composite Index , which is a measure of mortgage loan application volume , increased by 1.1 % in the week ending 7th February .
In the week ending 31st January , the index had increased by 5.0 % to the highest level since May 2013 .
The Refinance Index increased by 5 % to hit the highest level since June 2013 and was up by 207 % from the same week a year ago .
The index had jumped by 15 % from the week prior to 31st January and had also hit the highest level since June 2013 .
The refinance share of mortgage activity increased from 64.5 % to 65.5 % in the week ending 7th February .
In the week prior , the refinance share had increased from 60.4 % to 64.5 % .
According to the MBA , the mortgage market remained active early in 2020 , as applications increased for a 3rd consecutive week .
Mortgage rates remained close to their lowest levels since October 2016 in spite of the uptick last week .
A pickup in the jumbo lending market drove up loan sizes for refinances , as the refinance index hit its highest level since June 2013 .
It ’s a relatively busy week ahead on the U.S economic calendar .
Key stats include manufacturing numbers out of NY State and Philly .
January ’s housing sector and wholesale inflation figures are also in focus in a shortened week .
While the stats will influence , updates on COVID-19 and geopolitics will also influence demand for U.S Treasuries .
This article was originally posted on FX Empire

DNC announces qualifications for South Carolina debate .
2020-02-16 10:05:03 +00:00 .
The Democratic National Committee has announced the qualifications for the 10th 2020 Democratic Party presidential debate in Charleston , South Carolina on February 25 hosted by CBS News .
Similar to the qualifications for the February 19 Nevada debate , candidates seeking to participate will need to meet either a polling or delegate threshold to take part in the event co - hosted by the Congressional Black Caucus Institute .
To qualify using the delegate threshold , Democratic presidential hopefuls must have been allocated at least one pledged delegate to the National Democratic Convention from either Iowa , New Hampshire or Nevada .
The DNC will base their delegate totals from the February 3 Iowa caucuses on the results reported by the Iowa Democratic Party , the February 11 New Hampshire primary on the results as reported by The Associated Press and the upcoming February 22 Nevada caucuses on the results as reported by the Nevada Democratic Party or AP .
Separately , candidates can also qualify for the debate by meeting a polling threshold .
To meet that qualification , presidential hopefuls must reach at least 10 % polling in four national or South Carolina polls or at least 12 % polling in two South Carolina polls from the list of qualified polling sponsors as outlined by the DNC .
Each poll must be released between February 4 and 11:59 p.m. on February 24 .
The South Carolina debate takes place just four days before voters head to the polls for the state 's Democratic primary .
It is also the final Democratic presidential debate scheduled before Super Tuesday , when fourteen states , Americans abroad and American Samoa hold contests March 3 .
Based on the pledged delegates awarded from the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire primary , Joe Biden , Pete Buttigieg , Amy Klobuchar , Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren have already qualified for the South Carolina debate .
More candidates could meet the delegate threshold should they receive delegates from the Nevada caucuses .
So far , not enough polls have been released to qualify further candidates using the polling threshold .
Moderators for the debate in Charleston will be announced at a future date .
On Friday , the DNC , in partnership with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus ' political arm , CHC Bold , also announced the 11th Democratic presidential debate will take place March 15 in Phoenix , Arizona , two days before the state 's primary contest .
Qualifications for the 11th debate , co - hosted by CNN and Univision , have not yet been released .
U.S. to evacuate Americans quarantined by coronavirus on Japan cruise ship

The Observer view on coronavirus .
2020-02-16 07:30:29 +00:00 .
The news that coronavirus Covid-19 , which has spread across much of China over the past two months , has now claimed its first life in Europe might be seen as an alarming development .
Until now , deaths from respiratory illnesses that have been triggered by the virus have been confined to the Far East ; more than 1,500 deaths have occurred in China plus three others in Hong Kong , the Philippines and Japan .
Now the virus has killed someone much nearer to home , in France , suggesting that a new centre for the disease might be establishing itself in Europe .
We should take care in making such an interpretation , however .
The European victim turns out to be an 80 - year - old tourist from China ’s Hubei province , the disease ’s centre , who arrived in France on 16 January and has been kept in quarantine in a Paris hospital since 25 January .
He presumably carried the virus on his journey to Europe and as an octogenarian was particularly vulnerable .
This does not mean we should be complacent about the likely impact of Covid-19 , however .
There are no treatments or vaccines for this virus and , crucially , no pre - existing immunity in the population .
During the 2009 - 10 flu pandemic , many older people were protected because they had already been exposed to the virus strain involved .
This will not occur if Covid-19 spreads across Europe and the UK .
The elderly are likely to be particularly at risk .
In fact , there are so many huge unknowns about this outbreak that it is still impossible to work out how it will progress .
For example , we do n’t know just how infectious people are before they show symptoms of the disease .
A low infection rate suggests death tolls will be modest .
A higher one will mean that fatalities could be significant .
Careful monitoring of the disease is therefore going to be crucial over the next few months .
To date , the National Health Service has responded well .
However , it remains to be seen how it will perform when tens of thousands of people gather at hospitals seeking tests for the condition and wards fill up with those found to be infected .
Such uncertainty should not be seen as an excuse for inaction , however .
As we make clear in our Focus investigation of the coronavirus crisis , urgent measures now need to be taken to head off future pandemics that could catch us off - guard in future , a point that has been highlighted by the billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates .
“ Given the continual emergence of new pathogens … and the ever - increasing connectedness of our world , there is a significant probability that a large and lethal modern - day pandemic will occur in our lifetime , ” he warned some time ago .
Certainly , it is no accident that the most worrying recent pandemics to afflict the planet have emerged from Asia and Africa , in poor countries that have inadequate health services and which are limited in their ability to monitor and isolate cases of newly emerging diseases .
Hospitals , medical laboratories and research centres there need bolstering , rapidly , and should now be the focus of major investment by the west .
The World Health Organization has done much in this area but it is clear more needs to be achieved , for it appears that the world still does not fully appreciate that outbreaks of deadly new diseases – wherever they emerge – are not someone else ’s problem .
They will inevitably impinge on lives across the planet .
As Professor Trudie Lang , of Oxford University , has put it : “ This is not going to be the last outbreak of a previously unknown disease .
We have to seize the moment . ”

Could Micron Stock Run Up to Its 20-Year-Old High Near $97? .
2020-02-16 04:58:09 +00:00 .
It took Nvidia ( NASDAQ : NVDA ) stock 16 months to recover its all - time highs set on Oct. 1 , 2018 .
The correction was violent , and a slog on the way back up .
Meanwhile , Micron ( NASDAQ : MU ) started its correction a few months before NVDA , and Wall Street absolutely hated it at the time .
Sure , it was far from its all - time high that it set almost 20 years ago — but MU stock has some upside potential developing .
Micron stock has been in a strong bullish trend since the 2018 Christmas market crash .
It is now up more than 90 % since Christmas Eve 2018 , but the purpose of this article is to bring focus to the possibilities that exist above current levels .
In May of 2018 , Micron failed just below $ 65 per share while attempting a big breakout .
If the bulls can take it out now , they can trigger a bullish pattern that will finally challenge the all - time highs with about $ 30 of upside — maybe more .
This set up took decades to form , so it is likely to be a slow mover .
Moreover , it wo n’t trigger until we get confirmation above the last failures at $ 65 .
It will be important not only to overtake it , but to also establish it as forward support .
Only then will the pattern set and MU stock would off to the races .
That said , momentum traders love to buy high and sell higher .
I know this sounds crazy , but I had the same observation when MU stock approached $ 36 per share .
Back then in the fall of 2017 , the same pattern triggered and filled its entire target to these levels here .
So from a trading perspective , those already long on Micron stock are set .
However , if looking to get long on it now , jumping the gun is not ideal .
The next few dollars are tricky , and I prefer seeing the breakout confirmation before chasing the upside .
Overall , there are other things that investors can do , like selling puts in the meantime .
The alternative is to simply wait for dips and buying those just to have a better cost basis .
What adds to the hesitation here is that the entire stock market is at all - time highs in spite of the coronavirus from China threat .
One thing is clear on that front and that is we have a lot of unknowns .
Micron and the global economies depend heavily on China for a lot of growth .
It ’s been dubbed the “ global engine ” for that for a long time .
So if it falters , everyone will feel it .
In short , the equity markets are vulnerable to corrections from these record levels .
Patience may prove prudent , and at worst , investors should consider taking partial positions to leave room for managing risk on bad days .
Nevertheless , the bulls are in charge — and they are buying every dip .
Shorting stocks these days is risky , thereby giving advantage for the upside direction .
As Micron fell back into favor on Wall Street , it became more expensive .
And it now sells at a blistering 19.2 trailing price - earnings ( P / E ) ratio .
I remember recent days when it was falling below $ 30 per share , and the experts were calling it a value trap .
At the time , it had a P / E under three .
And now , it ’s six times more expensive
and they love it without any major changes inside the company .
Expert expectations add another layer of risk .
But clearly , we do n’t need the opinions of the so - called experts to trade MU stock .
My concern is its relative value .
The current 19 P / E ratio is not insanely bloated in absolute terms , but it is astronomical relative to its own history .
In my book , Micron here is far from a bargain — so conviction needs to be strong if buying it new .

Coronavirus death toll rises to 1,669 as China reports 142 new deaths .
2020-02-16 03:50:06 +00:00 .
Mainland China on Sunday reported 2,009 new coronavirus infections , with 142 new deaths , taking its totals to to 68,500 and 1,665 respectively .
The numbers , for Saturday , included 139 deaths in Hubei province , the epicentre of the outbreak – the same as the previous day .
The central province also accounted for 1,843 of the newly confirmed cases , with 1,548 of those in the provincial capital of Wuhan , where the outbreak was believed to have started at a seafood and meat market in December .
Hubei ’s new infections – down from the previous day , when it reported 2,420 – took its total to 56,249 , with 1,596 deaths .
The province had on Thursday begun including cases identified by clinical diagnosis , having previously counted only positive results from test kits , which have been in short supply .
On Saturday , the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) urged countries to adopt a government - wide response to the coronavirus .
“ This is not a job for health ministers alone .
It takes a whole - of - government approach , ” Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , the WHO director general , said in a speech at the Munich Security Conference .
“ That approach must be coherent and coordinated , guided by evidence and public health priorities . ”
The WHO chief again praised China , saying the steps taken by the Beijing government were encouraging .
“ China has bought the world time .
We do n’t know how much time , ” he said .
“ We ’re encouraged that outside China , we have not yet seen widespread community transmission . ”
Outside China , the death toll attributable to the virus remained at four as of Saturday .
Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) .
This 60 - page all new intelligence report gives you first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI .
Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning , and interact with China AI executives in live Q&A.
Offer valid until 31 March 2020 .
This article Coronavirus death toll rises to 1,669 as China reports 142 new deaths first appeared on South China Morning Post For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Europe Bond Investors Brace for Data That May Show Virus Impact .
2020-02-15 05:43:38 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Investors looking for evidence of how European economies may have been impacted by the coronavirus will get some on Friday .
Government bonds may rise if forward - looking purchasing managers numbers from Germany , France , the U.K. and the euro area for February show that confidence in the region is slipping amid growing concern over the virus ’s effect on economic growth .
The data would add impetus to a rush to safety that sent Greek debt yields below 1 % for the time , and spurred record inflows into bond funds in the week through Feb. 12 .
The rally also sent Italy ’s 10 - year yield premium over Germany ’s to the lowest since May 2018 .
There will also be scrutiny on the chances of further monetary easing from the European Central Bank , which releases the account of its January governing council meeting on Thursday .
The minutes loom after the euro ’s worst start to a year since 2015 , leaving it down over 3.4 % since 2020 began .
Three set - piece speeches from policy makers are due next week and investors will be looking for clues on the future direction of interest rates from the words of Philip Lane who speaks twice and Luis de Guindos .
Debt debt sales are scheduled from Germany , France and Spain , while Belgium may hold a syndicated bond saleDetails of the discussion at the ECB ’s last meeting , at which it kept rates steady , are due on ThursdayECB ’s Philip Lane speaks in Lisbon on Monday and again in New York at the U.S. Monetary Policy Forum on Friday .
Vice President Luis de Guindos speaks in Frankfurt on ThursdayBank of England ’s Silvana Tenreyro speaks at the forum in New York on FridayEuro - area , German , French and U.K. preliminary manufacturing and services PMI for February are due on FridayGermany also publishes February ZEW economic confidence survey TuesdayAside from the factory data , the U.K. will also publish average weekly earnings and the unemployment rate for December on Tuesday , January inflation on Wednesday and retail sales for January on Thursday .
Government borrowing data will be released on Friday .
Germany will sell five billion euros of new schatz with a 0 % coupon , maturing in March 2022 on Tuesday and 1.5 billion euros of buxl with a 1.25 % coupon maturing in August 2048 on Wednesday .
Spain will sell a new five - year note maturing in January 2025 with a 0 % coupon as well as a 10 - year bond with a 0.5 % coupon maturing in April 2030 on Thursday .
The size of the auction will be announced Monday .
Also on Thursday , France will sell bonds maturing in February 2023 with a 0 % coupon , March 2025 also with a 0 % coupon and November 2026 with a 0.25 % coupon for up to 8.75 billion euros .
No euro - area nations are scheduled to pay redemptions on bonds next week , but Austria and Ireland will pay coupons of around 200 million euros each .
Italy ’s Treasury due to announce the zero - coupon and linker bonds for sale on Feb. 25 on Thursday .
Moody ’s Investors Service reviews France ’s Aa2 sovereign rating on which it holds a positive outlook , next Friday .
U.K. Debt Management Office will sell 3.25 billion pounds of gilts with a coupon of 1.5 % maturing in July 2026 on Thursday .
To contact the reporter on this story : James Hirai in London at jhirai3@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Dana El Baltaji at delbaltaji@bloomberg.net , Michael Hunter For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

A Russian woman concocted an elaborate plan to escape coronavirus quarantine. Now she's being sued for threatening the health of others .
2020-02-14 21:24:58 +00:00 .
A medical worker is seen at the intensive care unit of Jinyintan hospital in Wuhan , Hubei province .
Alla Ilyina , 32 , was quarantined at the Botkin Hospital for Infection Diseases in St. Petersburg after going for a check - up on her sore throat after returning a Chinese seaside resort on January 31 , CNN reported .
But despite testing negative for the coronavirus three times , doctors insisted she had to stay .
So she concocted an elaborate plan to escape .
" I drew up a map before and made a detailed plan .
When evening came and the medical staff had let their guard down , I short - circuited the magnetic lock in my containment room and opened the door , " Ilyina , who had previously studied physics , told Moscow Times .
Ilyina claimed she was put in solitary confinement for two days when she decided to take matters into her own hands .
" Our Constitution guarantees freedom .
I did n't understand why I had to stay in a hospital cage , " she said .
Since fleeing on Thursday , the chief sanitary doctor of St. Petersburg has filed a lawsuit against Ilyina , Russian state media reported .
He claimed she committed an administrative offense by breaking quarantine regulations and threatening the health of others by exposing others to the COVID-19 virus .
However , Ilyina 's lawyer , Vitaly Cherkasov , told CNN that she was well within her right to return home having completed her 14 - day mandatory quarantine .
Cherkasov emphasized that his client had taken multiple tests for coronavirus that came out negative , adding that health officials did not isolate her from neighbors or relatives after returning from China 's Heinan Island .
" If she poses any danger for the people , as the chief sanitary physician states , no measures confirming there is a danger are being undertaken , " Cherkasov told CNN .
Ilyina is now barricading herself in her flat and refusing to open the door for police , who are seeking a court order to forcefully bring her back to the hospital until February 19 , BBC News reported .
However , Ilyina is n't the only Russian citizen who has made a great escape from quarantine .
Two others have fled coronavirus quarantines , including a mother and her son who jumped out of a window .
Guzel Neder , 34 , was also quarantined after returning from vacation at the Hainan Island .
She told the Moscow Times she escaped to avoid infection in the hospital ward .
" The conditions there were awful .
Doctors were very unprofessional and not wearing any protective gear , " Neder told the Moscow Times .
Both she and her son tested negative for the virus three days after they fled the hospital .
According to RBC , 20,000 people in Russia are under the supervision of doctors for suspected COVID-19 virus infection in hopes of curbing the spread of the virus in the country .
So far , Russia has confirmed two cases of coronavirus in the country , both of whom were Chinese citizens .
They have since recovered .
The coronavirus has taken the lives of more than 1,380 and infected more than 64,000 , with most of the cases in mainland China .
Apple is checking customers ' temperatures at its stores in Beijing because of the coronavirus outbreak The coronavirus has infected more than 1,700 healthcare workers in China , killing 6 of them A United flight was one of several locked down in London when a passenger developed symptoms consistent with the coronavirus Chinese couples are sending each other ' bouquets ' of masks and other essentials to celebrate Valentine 's Day as the coronavirus outbreak continues The Wuhan coronavirus death toll has topped 1,380 , with more than 64,000 infected .
Here 's everything we know about the outbreak .

Funds Face Trillion-Dollar Hit on Negative-Yielding Debt Pile .
2020-02-14 16:05:10 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The slide of so many bond yields below zero may cost pension funds and other institutional investors a trillion dollars this year .
Investors could lose $ 864 billion on debt with negative yields over the next 12 months , according to Daniel Tenengauzer , head of markets strategy at Bank of
New York Mellon Corp.
He predicts bond holders could separately shed another $ 176 billion in lost purchasing power through the securities , which would guarantee a loss if held to maturity .
Around the world , traders must pay to lend on $ 13 trillion of debt as the coronavirus and heightened economic uncertainty help to underpin demand for the safest assets .
Retirement funds are particularly exposed because they have few other secure places to store their assets , but need to generate returns to support pension holders into old age .
“ Across the board people are living longer after 65 and spending more money on health care , ” Tenengauzer said by phone .
“ On the other side you have a massive amount of assets in your portfolio that you need to pay to hold . ”
Negative - yielding debt has shaken up the conventional wisdom that investors should be compensated for lending to governments or companies .
Investors can still earn a return if bond prices keep rising , or by taking advantage of favorable currency dynamics that effectively inflate returns .
“ It ’s fine if there is growth but at the moment the global economy is not growing any more so portfolio managers may be stuck with an asset they ca n’t sell , ” he said .
Pension assets reached $ 44.1 trillion worldwide at the end of 2018 , according to the Organisation for Economic Co - operation and Development .
Pension funds and all retirement vehicles across OECD member states held 45 % of assets in bonds and bills , compared with about 55 % in 2008 .
Tenengauzer ’s lost purchasing power calculations take into account 1 % inflation and minus 0.26 % yield , he said in a note .
The market loss calculations assume the bonds normalize to compensate for inflation to yield about 1 % , assuming a current 4.9 - year average duration .
The global stockpile of negative - yielding debt has dwindled since the peak of U.S.-China trade tensions in August 2019 , when a third of all investment - grade bonds -- $ 17 trillion -- had rates below 0 % .
It touched a year - to - date high in late January amid tensions in the Middle East , before easing off .
The phenomenon effectively forces portfolio managers into riskier assets to deliver returns , which may be beyond their mandate and which could prove unsellable in future .
The Dutch government in September criticized the European Central Bank ’s latest wave of monetary easing amid fears about the fallout for its domestic pensions industry .
“ The real issue is what these low returns are doing to pension funds and insurance companies , ” said Chris Iggo , the chief investment officer of core investments at AXA Investment Managers .
“ They impact on solvency and also increase risks as it becomes more difficult to match the duration of their liabilities with their assets . ”
To contact the reporter on this story : William Shaw in London at wshaw20@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story : Dana El Baltaji at delbaltaji@bloomberg.net , Neil Chatterjee , Anil Varma For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

COVID-19: Patients with respiratory symptoms can get subsidised treatment at specific clinics .
2020-02-14 11:41:22 +00:00 .
SINGAPORE — From Tuesday ( 18 February ) , the public health preparedness clinics ( PHPCs ) numbering about 900 will be progressively activated to provide subsidised treatments to patients with respiratory symptoms amid the COVID-19 coronavirus outbreak .
“ With the enhanced detection and surveillance , we expect to see more confirmed COVID-19 cases in the coming days .
The measures we are putting in place will allow us to intervene early in the infection .
Activating the PHPCs is a proactive step to reduce the risk of further community spread of the virus , ” the Ministry of Health said in a media statement on Friday ( 14 February ) .
The PHPCs will care for patients with respiratory symptoms such as fever , cough , sore throat and runny nose , while patients suspected to have pneumonia will be referred to the hospitals for further tests .
MOH said that based on the COVID-19 cases in Singapore so far , the National Centre for Infectious Diseases has observed that a significant number of them have mild symptoms in the initial phases of infection .
These patients typically experience mild flu - like symptoms such as fever and cough .
Just like influenza , they can be infectious during the initial phase of mild symptoms .
During outbreaks , PHPCs provide subsidised treatment , investigations and medications .
They were previously activated to deal with haze and the H1N1 influenza pandemic .
Singaporeans and Permanent Residents with respiratory illnesses can get special subsidies at PHPCs .
These patients can also go to the polyclinics , where the subsidies apply .
At a media conference on Friday , Health Minister Gan Kim Yong , co - chair of the multi - ministry taskforce on the COVID-19 coronavirus , expressed his concern about patients who did not stay at home when they were ill .
“ We are quite concerned that many of our local confirmed cases had ( before confirmation ) remained in the community and some have gone back to work , even when they were ill .
And even after they had seen a doctor .
This is not helpful in our efforts to reduce the risk of community transmission , ” he said .
Healthcare professionals have been advised to give five - day medical certificates to patients with respiratory symptoms , MOH said .
For patients who do not recover within five days , they will be referred for further assessment and tests .
“ Should their symptoms persist or deteriorate , patients are advised to return to the same doctor to seek further treatment , ” MOH added .
COVID-19 : Singapore confirms 9 new cases , 6 linked to Grace Assembly of God church ; total at 67 Coronavirus :
How it 's spreading in Singapore and the world COVID-19 : Singapore economy to ' take a hit ' , recession possible due to outbreak - PM Lee COVID-19 : Healthcare workers get help in seeking refunds for cancelled holiday plans

Love boat: Valentine's Day on a quarantine cruise .
2020-02-14 03:19:46 +00:00 .
Passengers have been battling isolation , fear and boredom on board " Cupid 's avocado " for dinner , heart - shaped messages for the crew , but also painful separation : for those trapped on board the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship , Friday is no ordinary Valentine 's Day .
Wearing a red dress and a red hair tie , the ship 's entertainment manager Natalie posted a Valentine 's Day video on Twitter to try to keep spirits up .
" I just wanted to check in with everybody and say that we are all hanging in there , doing fine and keeping together as a big family , " she said , admitting with a smile : " This has n't been my regular attire for the last week or so . "
Passenger Matt Smith , 57 , was marking Valentine 's Day on board with his wife of 21 years , Katherine Codekas , also 57 -- and admitted this was not their first - choice location for the special day .
" After 21 years of marriage , we do n't make a big deal of it , but I usually get Katherine a card at least , " he told AFP from the ship .
" I think she was a little disappointed with our setting , " he added .
" Facebook reminded me this morning that three years ago we were in Las Vegas .
Way to rub it in ! "
Passengers on board were being offered a " Valentine 's Day " breakfast , Smith said .
" We were reminded what day it was by the delivery of what the crew member said was a ' special ' breakfast , " he said .
" Not sure why hard - boiled eggs , sausage , and sauteed mushrooms are special . "
The dinner menu , on the other hand , promises several special treats in honour of the day .
" Cupid 's Avocado and Shrimp salad " to start , followed by " Shrimp Valentine Japanese style with rice and vegetables . "
The main course is the French classic Coq au Vin with mashed potato and vegetables , and a " Valentine 's Day surprise dessert of the day " is promised .
" Coq au Vin , yes please , " tweeted Yardley Wong , who has been posting her efforts to keep her young son entertained on the quarantined vessel .
" A special meal for Valentine 's Day , a reserved bottle of red , " she added , with her usual hashtag # hanginthereDiamondPrincess and a picture of a bottle of wine .
She also posted a drawing by her six - year - old son for Valentine 's Day , with the caption " Stay strong , we are with you Diamond Princess . " - ' Then she was gone ' - American passenger Jackie joked that she had big plans for Valentine 's Day on the cruise , which has proved far from the gala holiday everyone planned .
" We 're going to have a formal night on Valentine 's Day in our cabin .
Take some pics , have some laughs , " she tweeted .
Another passenger cut out paper hearts and left them on her door for the crew to read , with messages including : " Thank you for all your hard work " and " Thank you for taking care of us . "
More than 200 people on board the ship have been diagnosed with the newly named COVID-19 and taken to local hospitals .
Those remaining on board will be in quarantine until at least February 19 .
While passengers are battling isolation , fear and boredom , some members of the crew have voiced concerns about their conditions , including eating together and sleeping two to a cabin .
But the coronavirus has also ripped some couples apart for Valentine 's Day , including at least one on their honeymoon .
Kent Frasure was forced to say goodbye to his partner Rebecca , who has contracted the virus and is now in isolation in hospital .
" We said ' goodbye , see each other later ' and gave each other a hug .
We did n't have a goodbye kiss because we did n't really know what was going on , " Kent told CNBC .
" Then I watched her walk down the hallway , turn the corner
and then she was gone . "

I Am In China Watching the Coronavirus Crisis Unfold. Here Is What I Am Seeing. .
2020-02-13 17:17:18 +00:00 .
There are two small family - run restaurants still open on an otherwise completely empty pedestrian street nearby where I am staying in Nanjing , China .
“ How are you able to remain open ? ”
I asked the proprietor of one , despite the fact that restaurants are ordered to be closed to prevent the continuing spread of coronavirus .
“ Not open
, ” he said .
“ Look at the sign .
The lights are n’t on .
But if people come , then I have to let them eat . ”
To translate the language of a savvy Chinese small businessman : come on in and have some rice wine !
Although the Spring Festival holiday ended on February 9 , the return to ordinary business and school has been delayed across the country .
University gates remain closed indefinitely .
Elementary and high school students are taking classes by video application .
Suddenly the smart work app Ding - Ding shot up to number one in the “ Business ” category in the Apple app store for the China region and accumulated more than 300,000 new reviews ( more than doubling ) , most of them negative , from disgruntled students , in just about a week .
When the coronavirus first began to spread , the government and the official media did not acknowledge — or perhaps even realize — how serious a problem it was and would become .
Wuhan was put under quarantine on January 23 .
Public places were closed on January 25 , but only about half of the people on the street were wearing face masks .
On January 26 , the Nanjing Metro ( and others in other cities ) required that all riders wear masks .
Then on January 30 , the major malls in Nanjing closed their doors .

Hong Kong, Singapore rugby sevens postponed over virus .
2020-02-13 12:04:12 +00:00 .
The Hong Kong Sevens rugby tournament attracts fans from all over the world Rugby 's Hong Kong and Singapore Sevens were postponed from April to October over the coronavirus on Thursday , joining the Chinese Grand Prix , golf and football fixtures on the growing list of sporting casualties .
The decision , which disrupts sevens rugby in the run - up to the Tokyo Olympics , was made " in response to continued health concerns relating to the novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) outbreak " , World Rugby said .
" The health and safety of our players , fans and everyone working on the event is always our highest priority , " it added in a statement .
The announcement comes a day after Formula One 's Chinese Grand Prix in Shanghai , scheduled for April 19 , was postponed , becoming the biggest single sports event affected by COVID-19 so far .
The flagship Hong Kong Sevens was slated for April 3 - 5 , with Singapore a week later .
Both cities are scrambling to deal with the virus , with 50 confirmed cases each and one death in Hong Kong .
The Singapore tournament will now take place on October 10 - 11 and Hong Kong a week later on October 16 - 18 , concluding this year 's 10 - stop world series .
The COVID-19 death toll leapt to 1,367 on Thursday with nearly 60,000 infections in China , where the virus is thought to have emerged in the city of Wuhan .
The Hong Kong Sevens , held every northern hemisphere spring since 1976 , is an important source of revenue and prestige for a city which has plunged into recession following months of pro - democracy protests and the US - China trade war .
The colourful , three - day tournament is the signature event of the sevens series and was a driving force behind the sport 's Olympic inclusion .
The Hong Kong Sevens will return to its usual slot next year , the city 's rugby chief told AFP , adding that he expected to sell out both the 2020 and 2021 tournaments even though they are just six months apart .
" We 're disappointed that in Hong Kong and China and globally we 're struggling with a big health issue , but we 're delighted that World Rugby were able to confer us this slot , " said HKRU chief executive Robbie McRobbie .
" We 've always wanted to be the last slot ( on the world series ) , and we 've finally and rather bizarrely got our wish , " he added .
Asia 's sports schedule has been hammered by the coronavirus , with Singapore 's HSBC Women 's World Championship , starting on February 27 , among two golf events cancelled this week .
The start of China 's Super League football is indefinitely on hold , and Chinese clubs are mostly sidelined from Asia 's Champions League until April .
Athletics ' World Indoor Championships , due to be held in Nanjing in March , were postponed for a year , while boxing , tennis , basketball , skiing , diving , snooker and badminton have also been affected in China .
A major sports conference scheduled for Beijing is another casaulty .
Organisers said they were looking for an alternative venue for the SportsAccord World Sports and Business Summit 2020 , originally set for Beijing from April 19 - 24 .
The biggest domino to fall was Shanghai 's Formula One grand prix , which was postponed " to ensure the health and safety of the travelling staff , championship participants and fans " , the FIA , motorsport 's governing body , said on Wednesday .
No new date was proposed for the race -- one of 22 on this year 's calendar -- and there has been no announcement about the inaugural grand prix in Vietnam , scheduled for April 5 .

Rugby's Hong Kong, Singapore Sevens postponed over virus .
2020-02-13 10:06:26 +00:00 .
The Hong Kong Sevens rugby tournament attracts fans from all over the world Rugby 's Hong Kong and Singapore Sevens were postponed from April to October over the coronavirus on Thursday , joining the Chinese Grand Prix , golf and football fixtures on the growing list of sporting casualties .
The decision , which disrupts sevens rugby in the run - up to the Olympics , was made " in response to continued health concerns relating to the novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) outbreak " , World Rugby said .
" The health and safety of our players , fans and everyone working on the event is always our highest priority , " it added in a statement .
The announcement comes a day after the Chinese Grand Prix in Shanghai , scheduled for April 19 , was postponed , becoming the biggest single sports event affected by COVID-19 so far .
The flagship Hong Kong Sevens was scheduled for April 3 - 5 , with Singapore a week later .
Both cities are scrambling to deal with the virus , with 50 confirmed cases each and one death in Hong Kong .
The Singapore tournament will now take place on October 10 - 11 and Hong Kong a week later on October 16 - 18 , concluding the 10 - stop world series .
The COVID-19 death toll leapt to 1,367 on Thursday with nearly 60,000 infections in China , where the virus is thought to have emerged in the city of Wuhan .
The Hong Kong Sevens , an annual springtime fixture since 1976 , is an important source of revenue and prestige for a city which has plunged into recession following months of pro - democracy protests and the US - China trade war .
The colourful , three - day tournament , a guaranteed sell - out , is the signature event of the sevens series and was a driving force behind the sport 's Olympic inclusion .
" It 's obviously a real shame
but they have to put the health of those involved and attending first
so it 's the right thing to do if it 's postponed , " Ben Ryan , who coached Fiji to Olympic sevens gold in 2016 , told the South China Morning Post .
Asia 's sports schedule has been hammered by the coronavirus , with Singapore 's HSBC Women 's World Championship , starting on February 27 , among two golf events cancelled this week .
The start of China 's Super League football is indefinitely on hold , and Chinese clubs are mostly sidelined from Asia 's Champions League until April .
Athletics ' World Indoor Championships , due to be held in Nanjing in March , were postponed for a year , while boxing , tennis , basketball , skiing , diving , snooker and badminton have also been affected in China .
But the biggest domino to fall was Shanghai 's Formula One grand prix , which was postponed " to ensure the health and safety of the travelling staff , championship participants and fans " , the FIA , motorsport 's governing body , said on Wednesday .
No new date was proposed for the race -- one of 22 on this year 's calendar -- and there has been no announcement about the inaugural grand prix in Vietnam , scheduled for April 5 .
The Hong Kong Sevens rugby tournament attracts fans from all over the world The Singapore Sevens is due to take place a week after the tournament in Hong Kong
The Hong Kong Sevens is the signature event on the global sevens series

Vietnam quarantines area with 10,000 residents over coronavirus .
2020-02-13 09:12:15 +00:00 .
Checkpoints have been set up around Son Loi farming region near Hanoi after six cases of the deadly new coronavirus were found there More than 10,000 people in villages near Vietnam 's capital were placed under quarantine Thursday after six cases of the deadly new coronavirus were discovered there , authorities said .
In the first mass quarantine outside of China since the virus emerged there in late December , the Son Loi farming region about 40 kilometres ( 25 miles ) from Hanoi will be locked down for 20 days , the health ministry said .
Checkpoints have been set up around the six villages that make up Son Loi , said an AFP team on the outskirts of the area in Binh Xuyen district .
Health officials wearing protective suits sprayed disinfectant on vehicles .
Police warned people wanting to enter the quarantined area that while they would be allowed in , they would not be able to leave .
The order comes after the health ministry reported that five people have been infected with the virus .
It later announced a sixth case .
They all originated from a female worker who was sent to Wuhan in central China -- where the virus originated -- for training .
The disease then spread to her family and her neighbours , including a three - month - old baby .
So far , only the female worker has fully recovered and been discharged from the hospital , according to updates from the ministry , while the others remain in a " stable " condition .
- ' Can not get out ' - The Son Loi area of roughly 1,000 hectares ( 2,500 acres ) is made up of farmland .
Many of the 10,600 residents also commute to nearby factories for short - term labour jobs .
Villager Tran Van Minh told AFP that authorities had already advised them to avoid large gatherings , though the cluster of infections in his village likely began due to Tet lunar new year celebrations last week .
" The woman infected her family and neighbours after Tet visits , " he said , adding that he and his family remain in good health .
But " life has been badly affected , " he told AFP by phone , adding that much of the labour force is reliant on jobs in construction and house painting .
" Now we can not get out and even if we do , clients do n't welcome us that much as before . "
Authorities in Son Loi began handing out face masks after the Tet holiday ended on January 30 .
Since then children and elderly have largely been confined to their homes .
Minh said he was not worried about running out of food , but he hoped " the epidemic will end soon " .
More than 1,350 people have died in China from the virus , and nearly 60,000 others have been infected , since it was first detected in Hubei province in December .
While thousands have recovered , scientists and pharmaceutical companies are racing to test a vaccine and treatment to better target the virus -- though health experts say it could be months before it is readily available .
China has imposed unprecedented quarantines across Hubei , locking in about 56 million people , in a bid to stop it spreading .
Tens of millions of others in cities far from the epicentre are also enduring travel restrictions .
The virus has also had massive ramifications globally , with many countries banning travellers from China in a bid to stop people spreading the disease .
Vietnam , which shares a porous border with China , has 16 confirmed cases of the coronavirus , including those in Son Loi .
It had banned all flights to and from mainland China in a bid to stop the virus from spreading .
It also suspended new tourist visas for Chinese nationals or foreigners who had been in China over the past two weeks .

Ex-TOWIE star Harry Derbidge’s fiancé Dean Rowland tested for coronavirus and held in isolation after Thailand trip .
2020-02-12 17:38:11 +00:00 .
The fiancé of former TOWIE star Harry Derbidge has revealed that he has been tested for coronavirus and is now in isolation .
Dean Rowland , 35 , told his social media followers that he has been suffering from flu after returning from a holiday to Thailand .
He shared an Instagram photo of himself wearing a protective facemask at Basildon University Hospital and joked that he hoped he had “ only brought back a tan ” from his trip .
He captioned the photo : “ Isolation realness .
Let ’s hope I only brought back a tan from Thailand and not Corona . ”
Rowland later posted a more detailed statement about his experience on his Instagram story .
“ I ’ve had so many nice messages so thought will be easier to do this , ” he wrote .
I ’ve basically been really ill with flu the last few days
and as I ’ve recently visited Thailand my doctors thought it would be best that I ’m tested for Coronavirus . ”
He added that the tests are “ now done ” and told fans that he will “ be isolated for the next few days until my results come back . ”
Rowland told Standard Online that he went to hospital after consulting the NHS 111 hotline and his GP .
" The staff at Basildon hospital have been amazing and so helpful and have done everything possible to put me at ease , " he said .
" I was so worried about my family especially my mum and Harry as I 'm in the most contact with them . "
Rowland and Derbidge announced their engagement in August 2019 after two years together and have since confirmed their plans to adopt .
45,000 people worldwide have so far been diagnosed with the virus , with the global death toll above 1,100 .
The pneumonia - like strain of coronavirus , which has since been named Covid-19 , was first detected in China at the end of 2019 .
The World Health Organisation then declared a Public Health Emergency in January .
Eight people have tested positive for the virus in the UK so far .
Hunt for 12 people treated by GPs struck down by coronavirus Coronavirus has spread to these countries

Photos inside the Diamond Princess cruise ship, where thousands of passengers have been quarantined for a week because of the coronavirus outbreak .
2020-02-12 04:26:34 +00:00 .
The Diamond Princess cruise ship , which can house up to 3,770 passengers and crew members , boasts the largest Japanese bath at sea and typically offers over 20 bars and restaurants for passengers to choose from .
Now it holds another distinction as a temporary sick bay for the largest number of people with the coronavirus outside of mainland China : at least 135 cases so far .
The entire ship is now on lockdown until February 19 — eight more days of mandatory room service .
Have a look .
The Diamond Princess has become a floating home to 2,666 guests and 1,045 crew members in the port of Yokohama , Japan .
The passengers and crew members were supposed to finish up a 14 - day cruise on February 4 .
Instead , Japanese public - health officials climbed on board in protective suits and discovered 10 cases of the novel coronavirus .
The cruise line suspects the contagion started sometime after January 20 , when a man from Hong Kong boarded the ship in Japan .
The man stayed on board for five days , then disembarked in his hometown .
He was diagnosed with the coronavirus on February 1 , alerting health officials to a potential outbreak on the Diamond Princess .
Since the ship has been quarantined , at least 135 of the roughly 3,700 passengers and crew members have tested positive for the new virus .
The coronavirus spreads easily through close contact between people .
Because testing takes a day or more and involves filling machines with spit and mucus samples , it 's not practical to test every one of the thousands of people on board .
People aboard have been unfurling signs that read " Lack of medicine ! "
and " Thank you , media " in recent days .
On Monday evening , a crew member told passengers that as many as 1,850 people on board ( who were n't expecting to be stuck there for this long ) had requested more prescription medications that had been distributed .
It 's unclear which medications .
The medical staff on board now includes " 45 doctors , 55 nurses , and 45 pharmacists , most of whom are volunteers , " a crew member told passengers on Tuesday .

How Does Coronavirus Spread? We Explain The Basics .
2020-02-10 22:06:38 +00:00 .
A single patient with coronavirus infected at least 10 healthcare workers and four patients at a hospital in Wuhan , China , according to a study , which shows just how fast – and easily – the virus can spread .
The study ’s authors estimate that , on average , each patient in the hospital had spread the infection to at least two other people .
Meanwhile on home soil , a British man who became infected in Singapore is thought to be responsible for at least seven other confirmed cases in England , France and Spain .
The latest type of coronavirus – known as 2019 Novel Coronavirus ( 2019 - nCoV ) – is one of seven types of coronavirus identified since the mid 1960s .
There are four common human coronaviruses , where the symptoms tend to be less problematic .
These are 229E , NL63 , OC43 and HKU1 .
There are also types of coronavirus that originated in animals and evolved to impact humans .
These include : MERS - CoV ( coronavirus that causes Middle East Respiratory Syndrome , or MERS ) , SARS - CoV ( coronavirus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome , or SARS ) , and most recently , 2019 Novel Coronavirus ( 2019 - nCoV ) .
With previous outbreaks like MERS and SARS , human - to - human transmission occurred through droplets ( i.e. when you cough and sneeze ) , contact with others , and touching infected objects or materials .
Paul Hunter , a professor in medicine at University of East Anglia , reiterates this , telling HuffPost UK coronaviruses are spread largely by droplets in the air .
As the old saying goes : “ Coughs and sneezes spread diseases . ”
If a person with coronavirus coughs or sneezes and another person is within two metres of where they ’re standing , they could inhale infected droplets .
Likewise , if an infected person coughs or sneezes onto their hand , then touches a door handle , another person who touches that door handle could pick up the virus .
If an uninfected person touches these surfaces , then washes their hands immediately ( and properly ) , there ...

China's biggest cities looked like ghost towns on the first day back to work after Lunar New Year, as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread .
2020-02-10 18:23:25 +00:00 .
woman in Shanghai on first day back at work .JPG Monday is the first official day back to work for many people in China after the New Year holidays were extended by authorities amid the coronavirus outbreak , but many of China 's biggest cities resembled ghost towns , photos shared to social media suggest .
The Lunar New Year holidays were originally set to run from January 24 to January 30 , but authorities decided to extend the holidays in attempt to limit the spread of the coronavirus in workplaces and public places , according to the South China Morning Post .
Some provinces extended the holidays for three days until February 3 , however at least 24 out of 31 of China 's provinces including Beijing and Shanghai advised businesses not to reopen until February 10 , the SCMP said .
Even with most provinces officially back to work Monday , it did n't seem like many people were working in the country 's biggest cities , social media photos showed .
David Kirton , the South China correspondent for Reuters posted a photo from Monday of his morning commute on the metro in Shenzhen , a city of 23 million people in China 's southeast .
The carriage appears to be noticeably empty despite it being " rush hour , " according to Kirton .
Simon Rabinovitch , a journalist at The Economist based in Shanghai , a city with a population of over 26 million people , reported similar scenes .
On what Rabinovitch says would have usually been " packed " subway during his morning commute there appears to be only five people in the carriage and plenty of empty seats .
A second photograph shows an attendant registering migrant workers who have returned to Shanghai to work .
According to Rabinovitch , the attendant was on the lookout for " anyone lugging a big bag " as an identifier that they may need to register , but had so far only seen " a few . "
The photo below shows Huaihai Middle Road , a usually busy road , at midday .
It is nearly deserted .
Rabinovitch said in the tweet a number of cars came by after the photo was taken .
" It 's not totally dead .
But it is still a long way from normality . "
Despite the official end of the Lunar New Year holidays , many companies continue to advise their employees to stay at home .
Chinese tech companies such as Tencent Holdings , ByteDance , and Alibaba asked their employees to continue working from home until 21 February , according to Reuters and The Financial Times .
Hubei province , where the virus first broke out , will keep schools closed until March 1 , according to Reuters which cited the People 's Daily newspaper .
The coronavirus outbreak that originated in Wuhan has killed more than 900 people and infected over 40,000 .
The virus has spread to every province and region in China , as well at least 26 other countries .

Coronavirus: Hongkongers stuck on the Diamond Princess in Japan struggle with boredom, cabin fever and the threat of infection .
2020-02-10 17:24:09 +00:00 .
Hongkongers stranded aboard the docked Diamond Princess cruise liner in Yokohama for seven days say they have to contend with stifling boredom , confined spaces , erratic meal times and dirty bedlinen – on top of the ongoing threat of the deadly coronavirus .
Young Wo - sang and his wife manage to kill time by watching films and taking advantage of the free internet , but their only wish is to get home – in good health – as soon as possible .
The Youngs are among about 260 Hongkongers staying on the luxury cruise in Japan .
On January 25 , thousands of passengers boarded the ship in Hong Kong for the start of an adventure taking in Vietnam , Taiwan and Okinawa .
But as their voyage was about to end at Yokohama on February 4 , they were banned by the Japanese authorities from leaving the ship for two weeks because a former passenger had been diagnosed with the new coronavirus , which has killed more than 900 people since emerging from the central Chinese city of Wuhan last month .
The infected 80 - year - old man from Hong Kong had disembarked the same vessel in the city on January 25 .
By Monday evening , the number of confirmed cases on the ship with 3,700 passengers had risen to 136 .
Young , 48 , boarded the Diamond Princess on January 25 at the Kai Tak Cruise Terminal with his wife .
He said he was worried the emergence of new cases could lead to an extension of the quarantine period .
“ I hope we can leave as scheduled or even earlier , ” Young said .
“ The captain made an announcement that the Japanese authorities were concerned about the new cases , but he stopped short of saying whether we can leave on February 19 .
So we just do n’t know when we are going to leave . ”
Young said passengers had only been allowed to leave their rooms for up to 1½ hours a day since the boat was berthed at the port of Yokohama , which sits 36 km south of Tokyo .
Announcements informed passengers when it was time for them to go to an area on deck where masked crew would hand out facial coverings and remind them not to get too close to others .
“ We did not go out .
We just open the balcony doors during the day to get the room ventilated with fresh air , and close them in the evening as it can get quite cold here , ” he said .
“ We also got a new set of bedding today as well , though the staff members would n’t come in and do it for us . ”
Young also said they had been spending time watching films in their room , and taking advantage of the complimentary Wi - fi to stay in touch with the outside world .
“ It ’s not too boring , as we can also watch TV and play crossword puzzles delivered to our room , ” he said .
His chief concern , however , was the meals and when they were served .
“ Every day , we can choose from a few options on what we want to have for lunch and dinner the next day .
But there ’s no choice for breakfast – you are either surprised or shocked by what you get each morning , ” he said .
“ Sometimes we get our breakfast as early as 7 am , and we do n’t get our lunch until 2 pm .
And then there ’s dinner at 6 pm . ”
Another Hong Kong resident , a woman who only gave her surname Yeung , also said that food was an issue .
“ Sometimes we get our dinner as late as 9 pm , ” she said .
Yeung said she had been staying in her room with her husband the whole time because going out would only increase the risk of infection .
“ It is quite boring here .
I just spend time walking around in the room and watching the harbour , as well as those boats and helicopters hired by Japanese media to take a closer look at us , ” she said .

Briton who caught coronavirus and returned on easyJet flight feared to be ‘super spreader’ linked to seven cases .
2020-02-10 10:27:51 +00:00 .
Doctors scan a patient 's lungs at Huoshenshan temporary hospital built for patients diagnosed with coronavirus in Wuhan in central China 's Hubei province ( Picture : AP ) A British man who caught coronavirus in Singapore is feared to be a ‘ super spreader ’ who is linked to seven other confirmed cases in the UK , France and Spain .
He was the third of four confirmed cases of coronavirus in the UK and is understood to be the first British person to contract the disease .
On Monday , the UK government introduced new powers to deal with coronavirus and declared it a “ serious and imminent threat to public health ” .
Disease experts have warned that Britain is facing a “ major outbreak ” of the disease .
It comes as the death toll in China from the virus rose to 908 , with the number of confirmed cases in the country reaching 40,171 .
Professor Chris Whitty , the chief medical officer for England , said the patient is " a known contact of a previously confirmed UK case , and the virus was passed on in France " .
The Mail Online said the patient is a British businessman in his 50s , whose movements prompted testing of hundreds of people on his flights , Alpine ski trip and visit to his local pub .
The man travelled back to the UK on an easyJet flight from Geneva in Switzerland on January 28 .
An easyJet spokeswoman said : “ EasyJet has been notified by the public health authority that a customer who had recently travelled on one of its flights has since been diagnosed with the coronavirus .
“ Public Health England is contacting all passengers who were seated in the vicinity of the customer on flight EZS8481 from Geneva to London Gatwick on 28 January to provide guidance in line with procedures .
“ As the customer was not experiencing any symptoms , the risk to others on board the flight is very low .
We remain in contact with the public health authorities and are following their guidance . ”
The airline said crew had been advised to monitor themselves for 14 days since the flight and that none of them are displaying any symptoms .
He is thought to have been diagnosed in Brighton and was transferred to St Thomas ' Hospital in London , where there is an infectious diseases unit , last Thursday .
Five British nationals who tested positive for coronavirus in France were diagnosed after they came into contact with a British national who had recently returned from Singapore .
The four adults and a nine - year - old child , who are not in a serious condition , were staying in the Alpine resort area of Contamines - Montjoie near Mont Blanc .
French officials said the British national who was in Singapore returned on January 24 and stayed for four days in the area in eastern France , before returning to England on January 28 .
Canadian mum desperate to be reunited with toddler stranded in China 's coronavirus epicentre Brit honeymooner on board
quarantined cruise ship confirmed as having coronavirus A British man in Majorca has also tested positive for coronavirus , while his wife and two daughters tested negative .
According to the government in the Balearic Islands , the family said they had been in contact with a person who tested positive for coronavirus in France .
Professor Paul Hunter , professor in medicine , University of East Anglia , said : " From today 's reports , this new case would appear to be linked to the cluster of cases in the French ski resort which is also linked to the case in Brighton .
" As such , this case is part of the same cluster which is being reported as linked to a British national returning from Singapore .

Mahjong and talking pigs – unusual coronavirus challenges facing Chinese authorities .
2020-02-09 15:36:26 +00:00 .
Authorities from China have been dealing with some unusual challenges in enforcing coronavirus containment , including mahjong addicts who refuse to give up the game and rumours featuring a talking pig .
To contain the spread of the virus , Chinese authorities have locked down Hubei province , which has about 60 million residents .
Throughout the country , the public has been discouraged from going outside or attending gatherings .
Several cities have introduced rules such as compulsory wearing of masks at all times in public spaces .
However , not everyone has been following the rules .
Mahjong is a popular card - like game played with tiles and each game requires four people .
Police in cities in least three provinces have had to break up mahjong parlours and confiscate tiles from residents in the past two weeks , according to media reports .
On Thursday , the health commission in the eastern province of Zhejiang said a county in Quzhou had recorded locally transmitted cases linked to playing mahjong .
As a result , officials from Jiuhua county confiscated more than 600 mahjong tiles from residents , removing selected tiles from each set .
“ In rural places , it ’s normal to play mahjong over Lunar New Year , ” county official Zheng Shihua said in a report by online platform Pear Video .
“ But we ’ve been telling them to stop .
Some listened and some did n’t .
There are always a couple of households that hide from us . ”
The tiles would be returned to residents after the outbreak was over , he said .
Elsewhere , a video posted online showed police in Maanshan in Anhui province , neighbouring Zhejiang , taking hammers to mahjong tables , sending tiles flying .
Police destroyed 16 mahjong tables after inspecting about 40 households in the operation on January 28 , Maanshan Daily reported .
The authorities have also had to debunk rumours that have sprung up during the outbreak , some veering towards the absurd .
A rumour that emerged on February 5 , about a talking pig , went viral in the southern province of Guizhou .
The rumour was that a pig had spoken to its owner and told them cooking and eating nine eggs before sunrise would prevent them contracting the coronavirus , Guizhou Metropolis Daily reported .
Many people apparently believed the rumour and shared photos of themselves cooking eggs on social media , according to the report .
On the same day , police tracked down the woman blamed for starting the rumour .
According to a statement by the police , she had sent the misinformation after reading that eating eggs could strengthen the immune system , and was detained for 10 days as a punishment .
Sign up now for our 50 % early bird offer from SCMP Research : China AI Report .
The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first - hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments , and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with .
This article Mahjong and talking pigs – unusual coronavirus challenges facing Chinese authorities first appeared on South China Morning Post For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

With more than 800 dead, the Wuhan coronavirus has killed more people than the SARS outbreak .
2020-02-09 02:02:03 +00:00 .
The novel coronavirus that originated in Wuhan , China has officially killed more people than the severe acute respiratory syndrome ( SARS ) outbreak , the latest death toll statistics show .
SARS , a deadly virus that swept across China and spread to a number of other countries in the early 2000s , killed 774 people .
As of the end of the day Friday , the death toll for the new Wuhan coronavirus was 724 .
The Hubei Health Commission announced Sunday another 81 people died Saturday in the province , bringing the provincial death toll to 780 and the global death toll to at least 805 .
The Chinese National Health Commission announced later in the day that the death toll in mainland China is now 811 with global losses at 813 .
The number of cases of the Wuhan coronavirus globally is more than three times that of SARS , which infected only 8,098 people between November 2002 and July 2003 .
Although the Wuhan coronavirus has resulted in the deaths of more people than SARS , it appears to be significantly less deadly .
The mortality rate for SARS was roughly 9 % while the Wuhan coronavirus kills only around 2 % of those infected .
In Wuhan , the mortality rate is over 4 % .
Most of those who die from the Wuhan coronavirus tend to be individuals who are older or who have other illnesses , but that is not always the case .
Li Wenliang , a 34 - year - old doctor in Wuhan who tried to warn others about the virus early on but was reprimanded by local authorities for " spreading rumors , " died Thursday after fighting on the frontlines of the outbreak .
While the virus has spread across China and to more than two dozen countries , as well as a few cruise ships , Hubei province and its capital , Wuhan , have been hit hardest by the coronavirus .
Wuhan , a metropolis home to around 11 million people , has been locked down for weeks , the streets of a once vibrant city eerily empty , drone footage shows .
The city , a major transportation hub and port town , has rushed to build two new hospitals and transformed schools , sports centers , and other existing venues into makeshift medical facilities with thousands of beds , still not enough as the number of infected continues to climb .
A number of drastic steps have been taken to curb the spread .
For example , deceased victims of the coronavirus are cremated immediately without funerals .
Wuhan authorities have ordered every resident to report their body temperature to health officials daily , and a citywide sterilization campaign aimed at disinfecting the entire city is underway .
The Wuhan coronavirus , like SARS , is a type of serious respiratory illness .
Early symptoms include fever , cough , or difficulty breathing , but given the long incubation period , up to 14 days , it is possible for someone to be both asymptomatic and infectious , which has made controlling the spread a challenge .
Chinese President Xi Jinping has called the spread of the coronavirus a " grave situation . "
Update : This post has been updated to include the latest numbers from China 's National Health Commission .

Thousands of Chinese doctors volunteered for the frontline of the coronavirus outbreak. They are overwhelmed, under-equipped, exhausted, and even dying. .
2020-02-07 18:19:23 +00:00 .
THE CENTRAL HOSPITAL OF WUHAN VIA WEIBO /via
REUTERS
Doctors and medical workers are feeling the toll of the deadly Wuhan coronavirus more than anybody except their patients .
As of Friday morning local time the virus , named after its epicenter in the central Chinese city of Wuhan , had killed 635 people and infected nearly 31,000 .
As many as 1,000 of those infected were medical workers .
( For the latest case total and death toll , see Business Insider 's live updates here . )
Some workers who contracted the disease have died .
More still are working in dire conditions , without the protection or resources they need to control an epidemic .
Here is the situation on the ground : Doctors in Wuhan , which was placed under a sweeping quarantine on January 24 , have been faced with far more patients than they can handle .
About when the quarantine began , one doctor told BBC News : " The hospitals have been flooding with patients , there are thousands , I have n't seen so many before .
" I am scared because this is a new virus and the figures are alarming . "
Early in the outbreak , scientists had not yet realized that the virus could spread from human to human .
During that time , many doctors did n't wear protective gear .
China has relatively few doctors per capita compared with countries like the US , and those it does have are less well - trained .
According to Business Insider 's Aria Bendix , China has less than two physicians for every 10,000 residents .
Only about 60 % have undergraduate degrees , and only about 10 % have graduate degrees , a radical difference from in European and North American health systems .
Wuhan 's medical staff were soon overwhelmed .
In response at least 6,000 medics from other parts of China were sent in , despite the risks .
These images show military medics volunteering to go to Wuhan :
On January 29 , Business Insider 's Will Martin reported that China had had deployed 4,130 medics from other parts of China to Hubei province , which contains Wuhan .
It was planning to increase the figure to 6,000 , according to the country 's National Health Commission .
Even with enough doctors , many hospitals were desperately short of supplies .
This included protective gear for the medics .
"
Many were not initially informed about the potential for people - to - person transmission , and even now we do n't have enough protective gear , test kits , and other supplies , " one Wuhan doctor told the South China Morning Post on January 24 .
There were also too few testing kits for patients , making it hard to distinguish a coronavirus case from any other flu or cold .
Patients in Wuhan came to consider getting access to a testing kit as being like winning the lottery .
Some hospitals have been pleading for donations of supplies from ordinary people .
A social - media post from the Wuhan Children 's Hospital , cited by the BBC , said simply : " Medical supplies are in short supply - help ! "
Some staff complained on social media that hospitals were even running out of food and drink .
Wuhan 's hospitals also lacked beds .
On January 23 , China announced it would build two new hospitals to cope .
One opened February 3 , the second on February 6 .

Ford shakes up top management three days after weak profit outlook .
2020-02-07 16:31:13 +00:00 .
DETROIT ( Reuters ) - Ford Motor Co on Friday named top executive Jim Farley its chief operating officer , positioning him as potential heir to Chief Executive Jim Hackett and shaking up its top management three days after a weak 2020 profit outlook .
Farley , president of new businesses , technology and strategy ,
has been viewed as one of the potential successors to Hackett , who took over in May 2017 .
News of his promotion and another perceived rival 's retirement , effective on March 1 , came in the same week the No . 2 U.S. automaker saw its shares slide following the disappointing forecast .
Ford is in the midst of a global restructuring as well as slumping demand in China , its second largest market , and Hackett said repeatedly on a conference call that the Dearborn , Michigan - based company needs to move with greater speed .
" It 's my judgment the time is to move with urgency now to fully integrate and accelerate Ford 's transformation , " he said .
" We 're now in execution mode and what the company needs is to come together , " Hackett added , saying he had no plans to leave the company after almost three years on the job .
By Ford 's own accounting , its restructuring is far from complete .
It said on Tuesday it has booked $ 3.7 billion of the projected $ 11 billion in charges it previously said it would take , and expects to book another $ 900 million to $ 1.4 billion this year .
In China , Ford lost $ 771 million last year , about half the 2018 loss , and its market share there has shrunk to 2 % from 2.3 % the year before .
Ford has been struggling to revive sales there since its business began slumping in late 2017 , and now the world 's largest market has been hit by a fast - spreading coronavirus that has killed more than 630 people .
" We have all the pieces in place now for China to be a profit improvement story , " Farley said .
Another key element for 2020 is Ford 's planned introduction later this year of a fully redesigned F-150 full - sized pickup truck , its top profit generator , as well as the Mustang Mach - E electric SUV and the Ford Bronco utility vehicle .
Farley , 57 , joined Ford in 2007 as global head of marketing and sales and went on to lead Lincoln , South America , Ford of Europe and all of Ford 's global markets in successive roles .
He previously worked at Toyota Motor Corp. “ We have all the foundation elements of this transformation , so now it 's go time - execution , " he said .
Farley is credited , along with Hackett , in forcing the redesign before its introduction of the Mustang Mach - E electric SUV and the decision to make it a Mustang vehicle , leveraging that iconic brand .
Farley has owned seven of the cars starting with a 1965 model he restored when he was 14 years old .
Hackett , 64 , also said Friday that Joe Hinrichs , president of automotive , will retire .
Many employees and outside observers had seen him as a favorite to succeed Hackett , but the company had been criticized recently for a poor launch of its new Ford Explorer SUV and rising warranty costs .
Hackett said Hinrichs ' retirement was not tied to any of those issues .
Ford said in regulatory filings that in addition to his regular compensation , Hinrichs will receive payments equal to two years of his annual salary , paid in monthly installments , as well as an enhanced retirement package .
Those monthly payments will cease if he is hired by another company .
Another executive , Hau Thai - Tang , 53 , received additional responsibilities .
He will continue to lead product development and purchasing , while adding responsibilities for enterprise product line management and connectivity .
Thai - Tang will report to Farley .

Coronavirus: 3 new confirmed cases in Singapore, including female teacher from Victoria Junior College .
2020-02-07 09:48:40 +00:00 .
People seen wearing face masks on the streets of Orchard Road on 31 January , 2020 .
( PHOTO : Dhany Osman / Yahoo News Singapore ) SINGAPORE — Three new cases of the novel coronavirus infection with no links to previous cases or recent travel history to China were announced by the Ministry of Health ( MOH ) on Friday ( 7 February ) , including a female teacher from Victoria Junior College .
This brings the number of confirmed cases of infection with no links to previous cases or recent travel history to China to four , and the total number of confirmed cases to 33 .
All three cases , announced during a multi - ministry taskforce on the Wuhan coronavirus press conference , were Singaporeans .
These cases - two women and a man - tested positive for the virus on Thursday at about 11 pm .
One of the cases is a 42 - year - old woman who taught at Victoria Junior College before being admitted to hospital .
She reported the onset of symptoms on 2 February .
According to the MOH , the woman , who stays at Elias Road , had nursed a fever on 31 January and was placed on MC .
She did not interact with colleagues or students after her symptoms emerged .
Before her hospital admission , she had visited Changi Airport and the Singapore Zoo .
She is currently warded at Parkway East Hospital .
The MOH said that colleagues and students in close contact with the woman will be placed on the 14 - day leave of absence since their last day of contact with her .
The school will also be thoroughly disinfecting the staff room and pantry .
Another new case is a 53 - year - old man who visited Malaysia on 6 , 11 , and 17 January .
The man , currently warded in an isolation room at Changi General Hospital , reported symptoms on 23 January and visited a general practitioner ( GP ) clinic on the same day .
He visited another GP clinic on 28 January .
The man , who stays at Tampines Street 24 , had visited The Life Church and Missions Singapore at MacPherson Road and had also visited family members and friends during Chinese New Year .
The third new case involved a 39 - year - old woman who visited Malaysia from 22 to 29 January .
She woman developed symptoms on 30 January and visited the emergency department at Sengkang General Hospital on 2 February before being admitted to the hospital .
More details have emerged about the case of an infected 27 - year - old Singaporean man , which was first announced on Thursday .
The man had attended a private business meeting at Grand Hyatt Singapore from 20 to 22 January .
Before his admission , he visited Far East Square at 19 China Street and Junction 8 at Bishan .
He resides at Shunfu Road .
The MOH added that among all the confirmed cases , two have been discharged .
Most of the remaining 31 cases are in stable condition or are improving .
Two are in critical condition , with one in the high dependency unit .
The taskforce on Friday raised the Disease Outbreak Response System Condition ( Dorscon ) level from yellow to orange amid the increase in the number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus .
It also announced a series of measures to be taken to curb the risk of community transmission , including suspending inter - school and external activities for schools until the end of the March school holidays and advising event organisers to cancel or defer non - essential large - scale events .
Stay in the know on - the - go : Join Yahoo Singapore 's Telegram channel at http://t.me/YahooSingapore Wuhan virus : Employers must inform MOM of workers returning to Singapore from China – Lawrence Wong Coronavirus outbreak 's impact on Singapore aviation sector will be bigger than SARS :
Khaw

South Korean university issues blockchain-stored diplomas amid the spread of the coronavirus .
2020-02-06 20:41:58 +00:00 .
South Korea ’s Pohang University of Science and Technology ( POSTECH ) is set to issue blockchain - stored diplomas to its new graduates .
Given the threat of the coronavirus , the university believes it ’s no longer safe for students to congregate at a graduation ceremony .
Instead of postponing the event , the administration decided to give students the option to get their diplomas online , local media outlet MBN reported .
On Feb. 7 , POSTECH ’s 828 new graduates will receive an email letter with a QR code linked to their blockchain - stored diploma .
The diplomas are created by blockchain - based certification service “ broof . ”
Launched in May 2019 by Korean firm ICONLOOP , the service allows users to issue , manage , and view online certificates via ICONLOOP ’s public blockchain network .
" In the aftermath of the new corona , it is impossible to hold a graduation ceremony on time , ” a POSTECH official told MBN .
" Now , even if a student does not visit the school to receive the diploma , they can get an online digital degree secured by blockchain technology . "
POSTECH previously made use of broof ’s technology in June 2019 when it issued blockchain certificates to graduates of its blockchain CEO course , MBN said .
Compared to traditional online diplomas , blockchain - based certificates are not subject to forgery or alteration .
Recipients can access the information through an encrypted path .
Meanwhile , other higher education institutions also are experimenting with digital academic credentials .
MIT Media Lab , for example , is building a set of tools to store and manage cryptographically signed certificates on the Bitcoin blockchain .

Coronavirus: Chinese doctor who tried to warn about outbreak 'killed by disease' .
2020-02-06 19:41:38 +00:00 .
A Chinese doctor who blew the whistle on the outbreak of the coronavirus is said to be in a critical condition after initial reports that he had died .
Dr Li Wenliang , 34 , an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital , sent a message in a chat group on 30 December to fellow doctors warning them of a possible virus outbreak .
He was then told by police to stop “ making false comments ” .
Last week , Dr Li said he had been diagnosed with coronavirus .
Earlier today , Chinese media reports reported he had died in hospital in Wuhan , the city where the outbreak originated .
The World Health Organisation even paid tribute to the doctor , with Dr. Mike Ryan , head of WHO ’s Health Emergencies Program , saying he was “ very sad ” .
“ We should celebrate his life and mourn his death with his colleagues , ” he added .
However , soon after , the state - run outlet Global News issued an update saying Dr Li was “ critically ill ” after his heart stopped beating .
At around 5 pm on Thursday , the Global Times posted another tweet saying Dr Li was still under emergency treatment .
They said reporters had heard “ people weeping ” inside the intensive care unit and described Li as one of “ 8 whistleblowers who tried to warn other medics of the # coronavirus outbreak in Dec but were reprimanded by Wuhan police ” .
The South China Morning Post reported Wuhan hospital saying on its official Weibo account that doctors were trying to “ resuscitate ” Dr Li .
Dr Li shared the warning after he noticed seven cases of a virus he thought resembles Sars , the deadly illness which spread in 2003 .
Four days after his warning he was called to a police station to sign a letter in which he was accused of “ making false comments ” that had “ severely disturbed the social order ” .
He then shared a social media post saying he started coughing on 10 January , and was hospitalised with a fever three days later .
According to the BBC , he wrote : “ Today nucleic acid testing came back with a positive result , the dust has settled , finally diagnosed . ”
As of Thursday , the global death toll from coronavirus was 565 , with the number of confirmed cases being 28,273 .
Some 260 cases have been recorded outside China , including three in the UK .
One case was confirmed earlier on Thursday .
Meanwhile , the Chinese ambassador to the UK warned against “ rumours and panic ” over coronavirus after concerns were raised that Boris Johnson has not offered a personal message of support to China ’s leaders .
Speaking to reporters in London , Liu Xiaoming called on the UK government to support China in its handling of the outbreak , but insisted relations between Chinese president Xi Jinping and the British PM are good .
He said : “ It is of hope that governments of all countries , including the UK , should understand and support China ’s efforts , avoid overreaction , avoid creating panic , and ensure normal co - operation and exchanges between countries . ”

Schiff: Bolton refused to submit sworn affidavit on Ukraine dealings .
2020-02-06 14:31:31 +00:00 .
House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff said former National Security Adviser John Bolton refused to submit a sworn affidavit on President Trump 's dealings with Ukraine after the Senate rejected additional witnesses and documents .
In an interview with MSNBC on Wednesday after the Senate voted to acquit Mr. Trump of charges he abused his power and obstructed Congress , Schiff , a Democrat from California , said House Democrats approached Bolton 's counsel after the unsuccessful vote in the Senate .
The House " asked if Mr. Bolton would be willing to submit an affidavit under oath describing what he observed in terms of the president 's Ukraine misconduct , and he refused , " Schiff said .
" So for whatever reason , he apparently was willing to testify before the Senate but apart from that , seems intent on saving it for his book .
He 'll have to answer for that . "
Bolton said last month before the Senate impeachment trial kicked off that he would testify before the upper chamber if subpoenaed .
Democrats had pushed for additional testimony during the proceedings , namely from Bolton , and their efforts were bolstered after details from Bolton 's forthcoming book were leaked and reported by the New York Times .
Bolton reportedly wrote in an unpublished manuscript that Mr. Trump directly linked $ 400 million in military assistance to Ukraine to investigations into his Democratic political rivals , including former Vice President Joe Biden .
That conduct was at the heart of the first article of impeachment against Mr. Trump , abuse of power .
But last week , the Senate rejected a motion to allow consideration of additional witnesses and documents in the impeachment proceedings , rebuffing Democrats ' hopes of hearing from the president 's former national security council .
House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler said the House will " likely " subpoena Bolton .
But Schiff suggested it 's not yet known whether they will seek to compel testimony from him .
" There 's been absolutely no decision made about whether to subpoena John Bolton or not subpoena John Bolton , " he told MSNBC .
" What we had decided in discussing this with the speaker is we were going to try the case , we would conclude the trial , and we would consider what next steps we should take afterwards " Schiff and Nadler , a Democrat from New York , both served as impeachment managers in the Senate trial , presenting the House 's case for why they believe Mr. Trump was guilty for abuse of power and obstructing Congress in the course of the Democrats ' investigation into his conduct with Ukraine .
Bolton 's book , meanwhile , is supposed to be published March 17 .
The manuscript was submitted to the National Security Council for review in late December , but the White House warned Bolton last month it contained classified and top secret information that could not be published or disclosed .
Astronaut Christina Koch returns to Earth after a year in space
Scientists look to HIV , Ebola medications for coronavirus treatment Eye Opener at 8 : Biden hopes for better results in New Hampshire

Passengers on the cruise ship quarantined off Japan over the coronavirus are 'stir crazy' in cramped rooms and say they're being fed stale bread .
2020-02-06 13:04:23 +00:00 .
Passengers trapped on the cruise ship quarantined off the coast of Japan are going " stir crazy " while confined to their cabins , multiple media outlets have reported .
Those aboard the Diamond Princess have been ordered to stay in their rooms for the duration of a 14 - day quarantine after a rising number of coronavrius cases have been confirmed on board .
The outbreak was first identified when a passenger who rode the ship in an earlier portion of the cruise before disembarking in late January was later found to have the virus .
Later tests found 10 cases on board , and then another 10 as of Wednesday , according to the Los Angeles Times .
Several passengers posted on social media to share their experiences .
One , David Abel , posted several videos to his Facebook page from his cabin .
He appeared to be in good spirits when the quarantine was first announced and even joked that it was two extra free weeks of vacation .
He noted , however , that he was lucky to have a room with a balcony .
Many passengers in cheaper rooms do not even have windows .
" Can you imagine ?
It would be liked being locked in a wardrobe , would n't it ? "
he told The Washington Post . "
No fresh air .
No natural light .
It really must be a living hell for them . "
Abel , who has diabetes , expressed concern over meals , specifically about getting enough carbs to maintain his blood - sugar levels .
Two honeymooners , Alan and Wendy Steele , told The Post they were offered stale bread and ham for lunch , " a far cry from the meals that had been offered throughout the cruise .
" The described themselves as going " stir crazy . "
One Twitter account posted meals from the quarantine , one of which looked like this : The Post reported that one day breakfast was not served until 11 a.m. , with calls for room service unanswered .
Passengers are not allowed to leave their cabins to get anything for themselves .
Some worried for their health .
Masako Ishida told The New York Times that authorities who performed health exams on all the passengers on board " did n't seem to take it very seriously . "
According to Princess Cruises , the tour operator , those with confirmed infections were taken off the ship to hospitals in Japan .
Ishida told The Times she first heard of the quarantine from an online news article rather than from cruise staff .
The Steeles told The Post that they relied on other passengers and the news for information .
Alan Steele said the public - address system was not communicating with them .
" We 're basically being treated like we 're prisoners and criminals at the moment — that 's how we feel , " he told The Post .
In his videos , Abel said passengers were given free internet , calls , and in - cabin entertainment to pass the time .
Instead of remaining docked , the ship headed out to sea to produce fresh water and dispose of its septic material , Princess Cruises said .
Another Twitter user , Yardley Wong , who is also on the cruise ship , tweeted : " 14 days # Quarantine inside # diamondprincess near # yokohama begins .
Still shocked and scared .
But better precautions .
Have faith in the crews and captain . "

A second cruise ship has been quarantined over coronavirus scare .
2020-02-05 21:36:37 +00:00 .
A cruise ship has been quarantined in Hong Kong amid concerns that three passengers who tested positive for coronavirus could cause an outbreak .
The World Dream 's operator , Genting Cruise Lines , said mainland officials notified the company of three passengers who contracted the Wuhan virus , all of whom were onboard between January 19 and January 24 .
The shop is being held in Hong Kong 's Kai Tak cruise terminal .
None of 1,800 passengers and 1,800 crew members aboard the World Dream are allowed to leave the ship without permission .
Individuals are having their vitals checked and filling out health forms , the news outlet Radio Television Hong Kong ( RTHK ) reported .
The World Dream is the second cruise ship in East Asia to initiate a quarantine amid the spreading Wuhan virus .
The Diamond Princess , outside Tokyo , is currently on a two - week quarantine after 10 of its passengers tested positive for the virus on Wednesday .
The initial case of coronavirus on the ship was an 80 - year - old man from Hong Kong , and the cases overall include one American , three people each from Japan and Hong Kong , one Filipino crew member , and two Australians .
The vessel was barred from voyage on Monday .
According to a woman on World Dream , crew members were the first to be screened for the virus .
She told RTHK that everyone aboard is wearing a face mask .
More than 24 staff members have reported potential coronavirus symptoms such as coughing , according to Leung Yiu - Hong , the chief port officer of Hong Kong 's health department .
The most recent voyage , which began in late January , held a total of 4,600 people .
Roughly 200 of them were from Hong Kong , but departed the vessel before the quarantine order , according to authorities , who are now trying to locate them .
Leung said Genting Cruise Lines had received requests for information on the 200 individuals .
It is currently unclear whether the World Dream will ratchet up additional safety precautions and how long it will stay in quarantine , Leung told RTHK .
" We 'd like to see the result of our quarantine measures and the epidemiological investigation to see whether we need more stringent measures , " Leung said .
" So for the time being , we can not conclude the likely tie for finishing the quarantine measures .

Rising Crude Inventories Fail To Halt Oil Rally .
2020-02-05 16:55:49 +00:00 .
Oil prices dipped only slightly after the Energy Information Administration reported a crude inventory build of 3.4 million barrels for the last week of January .
This compares with an inventory build of 3.5 million barrels for the previous week and analyst expectations of a 3 - million - barrel increase for the week to January 31 .
In gasoline , the EIA reported an inventory draw of 100,000 barrels for the last week of January .
This compared with an increase of 1.2 million barrels for the previous week .
Gasoline production in the seven days to January 31 averaged 9.9 million bpd , versus 9.2 million bpd a week earlier .
In distillate fuels , the authority reported a fall in stockpiles of 1.5 million barrels for last week .
This compared with a 1.3 - million - barrel inventory decline a week earlier .
Distillate fuel production last week averaged 5 million bpd , down from a week earlier .
Refineries processed some 16 million bpd last week , the EIA also said .
Oil prices meanwhile broke a ten - day losing streak after media reports emerged that Chinese scientists may have found a treatment against the disease .
Oil gained more then 3 percent on the news in Asian and European trading on Wednesday .
However , the World Health Organization shattered the budding optimism by saying there was as of yet no known cure for the coronavirus .
“ There are no known effective therapeutics against this 2019 - nCoV and WHO recommends enrollment into a randomized controlled trial to test efficacy and safety .
A master global clinical trial protocol for research and prioritization of therapeutics is ongoing at the WHO , ” the agency said .
As the WHO statement begins to make waves across oil markets , EIA ’s latest inventory update could accelerate / slow down the drop , especially as it confirms / rejects the American Petroleum Institute ’s estimate of a 4.18 million - barrel inventory build , reported yesterday .
At the time of writing Brent crude was trading at $ 56.05 a barrel , with West Texas Intermediate at $ 51.47 a barrel both up by close to 4 percent from yesterday ’s close .
To get ahead of the EIA report in the future download the Oilprice.com app and set an oil price alert to see how the insiders are trading before the news becomes public .

Credit Suisse Joins Firms Scrapping Events on Virus Outbreak .
2020-02-05 08:48:44 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Want the lowdown on European markets ?
In your inbox before the open , every day .
Sign up here .
Credit Suisse Group AG scrapped its annual Asia investment conference planned for next month , adding to a string of cancellations or delays for similar events in Hong Kong and China as the spread of the deadly coronavirus shows no sign of abating .
The Zurich - based private bank , which planned to hold the conference on March 25 - 27 at Hong Kong ’s Conrad Hotel , informed investors Tuesday it ’s canceling the event .
“ In view of the continued health and safety risks caused by the coronavirus , we have taken the decision to cancel this year ’s Asian Investment Conference , ” a spokeswoman said in an email .
The decision marks the biggest cancellation in Hong Kong ’s financial industry after the outbreak of the virus .
The city reported its first confirmed death Tuesday from the virus , the second fatality outside mainland China , where the number of cases has topped 24,000 .
Neighboring Macau , the world ’s biggest gambling hub , has asked its casinos to shut down for half a month .
Separately , the annual Fund Managers ’ , Asian Bankers ’ and Brokers ’ Awards set for later this month has been postponed to March , said Sean Alexander , a representative for the organizer .
The decision came after some attendees chose to remain overseas with Hong Kong schools remaining shut until March 3 .
Meanwhile , several other conferences slated to happen in China and Hong Kong in February and March have been either postponed or canceled due to the coronavirus outbreak .
The two - day AVCJ China Forum , which hosts more than 430 fund managers and was scheduled in Beijing for mid - March , has been postponed until September , according to a Hong Kong - based spokeswoman .
Fitch Ratings ’ Credit Outlook 2020 Conference in Hong Kong , planned for Feb. 11 , was scrapped .
The credit ratings company will host live webinars instead , it said in an email to potential attendees .
The virus also prompted trade journal HFM to postpone a planned conference for hedge fund chief operating officers in Macau , according to another email sent to potential attendees .
The HFM Asia Operational Leaders ’ Summit 2020 was to take place on Feb. 19 and Feb. 20 and will be rescheduled to later this year .
To contact the reporters on this story
: Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at kchan14@bloomberg.net;Bei Hu in Hong Kong at bhu5@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story : Candice Zachariahs at czachariahs2@bloomberg.net , Jonas Bergman , David Scanlan
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

Coronavirus: nervous neighbours, councillors believe brother of deceased patient left rather than face quarantine .
2020-02-04 16:08:05 +00:00 .
A sense of panic is building at a private estate in Kowloon ’s Hung Hom area , where neighbours are questioning whether everyone in close contact with the city ’s first confirmed coronavirus fatality has been quarantined .
District councillors have joined residents of Whampoa Garden in calling on the Department of Health and the Home Affairs Department to help track down the older brother of the 39 - year - old coronavirus victim , the city ’s 13th confirmed case , who died of sudden heart failure on Tuesday .
At question is who precisely the brother was living with .
According to several neighbours , the missing man lived with his 72 - year - old mother , who on Sunday was also confirmed to carry the deadly virus , while a source from the Department of Health has said officials believe he lived in another apartment entirely .
The woman has no history of recent travel , making her the first confirmed human - to - human infection locally .
“ The mother lived with the elder son , ” a neighbour who lives upstairs from the family and requested anonymity told the Post .
“ The deceased man , his wife , their two children and a Filipino domestic helper lived [ three floors higher ] .
A security guard working in the next block over said the deceased man was dealing with a chronic illness – something previously reported by authorities – while his wife , two children and helper had been quarantined since his infection was confirmed on January 31 .
At a press conference on Tuesday , Dr Chuang Shuk - kwan , head of the Centre for Health Protection ’s communicable disease branch , said that family members who stayed in the same flat with the deceased man had been sent to quarantine centre .
But another neighbour who spoke to the Post said that the now - quarantined mother had actually lived with her elder son , who had not yet been quarantined when she was confirmed as the 15th case and transferred to an isolation ward at Kwai Chung ’s Princess Margaret Hospital .
A third neighbour said she was unsure in which flat the mother lived , though she had seen her visiting both homes .
The Health Department has previously requested that all people who have had close contact with coronavirus patients be quarantined , including anyone who lives in a same flat .
“ I am so scary and angry after realising that the elder brother of the deceased man was not quarantined .
We have kept calling and complaining to the Health Department .
How could they be so negligent , ” a neighbour who lives in the same block and refused to give his name told the Post .
“ [ We ] do not want our homes become another Amoy Garden , ” he added , referencing a housing estate just 7 km from Whampoa , where 321 cases of Sars were discovered during the 2003 outbreak .
A piano teacher who lives upstairs from the deceased man ’s family said she suspended all her lessons as soon as she learned of his coronavirus confirmation on January 31 .
“ It ’s pretty scary as the two families live just downstairs , but not all of the family members were quarantined .
Parents of my students are also panicked , as their children used the lifts when coming to my home in the past few weeks , ” the teacher , who refused to give her name , said .
“ I am afraid that I may have hidden coronavirus , so I chose a two - week voluntary isolation . ”
Security guards at Whampoa Garden , meanwhile , closed all sport facilities on Tuesday after news of the fatality emerged and have begun hourly disinfections of lift buttons and handrails , just as they did during the Sars outbreak .
HSBC also closed its Whampoa bank branch on Tuesday without saying when it would reopen .

Global Investors Have Never Had This Much Gold Stashed in ETFs .
2020-02-04 13:00:28 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Want the lowdown on European markets ?
In your inbox before the open , every day .
Sign up here .
The global stash of gold in exchange - traded funds has risen to a record after a long run of accumulation that ’s been given added impetus in recent weeks by the fall - out from the widening coronavirus crisis .
Worldwide holdings in bullion - backed ETFs climbed to 2,573.9 tons on Monday , topping the previous peak set in 2012 , according to an initial Bloomberg tally .
The latest additions follow four straight years of inflows , and come as prices of the traditional haven trade near the highest level since 2013 .
Gold has risen as the health emergency centered in China hurts appetite for risk at a time when U.S. interest rates are expected to remain low for some time , with some investors seeing further easing from the Federal Reserve .
Among them , DoubleLine Capital LP Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Gundlach said on Friday he now sees a 90 % chance for a Fed rate cut this year .
Simmering geopolitical tensions have also driven interest in bullion .
“ Gold ended 2019 with its best gains in a decade , closing up by 18 % , so momentum was well and truly building in the ETF sector well before the coronavirus , ” Gavin Wendt , senior resource analyst at MineLife Pty in Sydney , said in an email .
“ Evidence is growing for U.S. dollar weakness , which could last for at least the first half of 2020 and beyond , providing further impetus for gold . ”
The record means investors are holding an unprecedented volume of bullion in ETFs even as U.S. equities remain near all - time highs .
After surging 29 % last year , the S&P 500 Index set its last closing high on Jan. 17 , although it ’s fallen for the past two weeks as the virus led to concerns about a global pandemic .
Monetary policy and geopolitics have fueled the bulk of annual ETF inflows , while the price rise also drew in momentum - driven buying , the World Gold Council said in its demand trends report for 2019 .
The last time the bullion holdings peaked was in December 2012 as the Fed held interest rates near zero , while stepping up an asset - purchase program in a bid to boost growth and bring down unemployment .
The ETF hoard then contracted in the three years to 2015 .
The Fed held rates last month after three cuts in 2019 to extend a record U.S. expansion .
At the same time , the bank ’s been purchasing Treasury bills at the rate of $ 60 billion a month to help to relieve strain in repo markets , although Chairman Jerome Powell has said this is n’t a return to quantitative easing .
Spot gold fell 0.3 % to $ 1,572.28 an ounce at 6:21 a.m. in London on Tuesday after rising 4.7 % last month .
Bullion has also benefited from geoploitical tensions .
Last month , Tehran struck a base in Iraq staffed by the U.S. military in retaliation for Washington ’s killing - by - drone of a senior Iranian general .
The flare - up lifted gold above $ 1,600 on an intraday basis .
“ The world remains a volatile place , which promises to continue to provide support for gold in 2020 , and boost further inflows into ETFs , ” said MineLife ’s Wendt .
To contact the reporter on this story :
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Singapore at rpakiam@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story : Phoebe Sedgman at psedgman2@bloomberg.net , Jake Lloyd - Smith , Jason Rogers For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

One of the most accurate Apple analysts just cut his forecast for iPhone shipments because of the coronavirus .
2020-02-03 19:06:36 +00:00 .
FILE PHOTO :
Apple 's new ( L - R ) iPhone 11 Pro Max , 11 Pro and 11 are displayed after they went on sale at the Apple Store in Beijing , China , September 20 , 2019 .
REUTERS /
Jason Lee Ming - Chi Kuo , an analyst with TF International Securities known for his reliable Apple predictions , recently cut his forecast for iPhone shipments in the first calendar quarter of 2020 because of the coronavirus outbreak .
Kuo cut his estimate for iPhone shipments by 10 % , saying that the company is likely to ship between 36 million and 40 million units during the first calendar quarter of the year .
In the note , which was reported by CNBC and MacRumors , Kuo cited a survey conducted by his firm which indicated that the coronavirus is impacting iPhone supply .
The report from Kuo comes after Apple said it has temporarily closed all of its stores and corporate offices in China through February 9 " out of an abundance of caution , " as the company said in a statement .
Foxconn , Apple 's largest iPhone assembler , also anticipates that shipments to customers like Apple could be impacted if factory shutdowns extend beyond February 10 , according to Reuters .
That report comes after Foxconn said just days ago that the coronavirus would n't have an impact on its production schedules , as The Verge earlier reported .
Apple CEO Tim Cook and CFO Luca Maestri addressed concerns about the ongoing coronavirus outbreak during the company 's fiscal first - quarter earnings call last week .
Cook said the company has been deep cleaning its stores in China , checking employee temperatures , and limiting travel to China to " business critical situations .
" Apple also factored uncertainty around the coronavirus may affects its business into its revenue guidance for its fiscal second quarter of 2020 , which the company expects will fall between $ 63 billion and $ 67 billion .
In his note , Kuo said it was n't clear how the outbreak could impact shipments in the second calendar quarter .
" It 's difficult to predict the shipments in 2Q2020 because of the uncertainties of the coronavirus epidemic and consumer confidence , " Kuo wrote .
The Wuhan coronavirus has killed more than 300 people and was recently deemed a global health emergency by the World Health Organization .
The outbreak has rattled the operations of businesses across various industries , from air travel to fast food chains .
The Dow tumbled more than 600 points on January 31 in what was the index 's worst fall since August 23 .

Photos of stores in Wuhan show what life is like under the coronavirus lockdown .
2020-01-31 22:13:00 +00:00 .
Wuhan , the city in the Chinese province of Hubei that is the epicenter of the deadly coronavirus outbreak , has been under an unprecedented quarantine since January 23 .
Roughly 9 million residents are currently trapped in the city , and about 5 million left before the lockdown began , according to Hubei officials cited by the South China Morning Post .
The lockdown started on January 23 , with closures of airports and public transportation in Wuhan .
Authorities then banned all private cars in the city 's downtown area on January 26 , according to China 's state - run press agency , Xinhua .
As of Friday morning , the coronavirus has killed at least 213 people and infected more than 9,700 people in China , and it is continuing to spread globally .
More than 100 cases have been confirmed in 22 other countries , including six in the US .
On Thursday , the WHO declared the novel coronavirus outbreak a global health emergency .
The quarantine , traffic bans , and fears around the deadly virus have made Wuhan a ghost city .
Residents only go out occasionally to stock up on supplies at nearby supermarkets and pharmacies .
Locals have been lining up in front of pharmacies to buy face masks since mid - January as officials confirmed that the virus could be transferred among people .
Hector Retamal / AFP via Getty ImagesSome photos of insanely long lines for face masks have gone viral on social media .
A shortage of protective face masks has been reported in Wuhan and other Chinese cities , as well as in countries like Australia and on online retail platforms like Amazon .
The lockdown happened just before the Lunar New Year , also called " Spring Festival , " the most - celebrated festival in China and many other Asian countries .
Feature China / Barcroft Media via Getty ImagesThe 15 - day holiday mean that demand for supplies was already high , as households prepare family banquets and invite friends and relatives over to celebrate .
Stringer / Getty ImagesThe city 's traffic bans and fears around the deadly virus further prompted citizens to stock up on necessities and groceries .
Stringer / Getty ImagesShelves are reportedly clearing quickly after supplies arrive , though there has n't been a shortage of food in general .
Authorities have reportedly told farmers to step up food production and opened roads for delivery trucks to meet the daily needs of millions of residents .
Vegetables , meat , and instant foods often sell out quickly .
There are police guarding the entrances to big supermarkets .
Feature China / Barcroft Media via Getty ImagesMasked workers disinfect the hands of customers before shoppers walk into the supermarket .
Feature China / Barcroft Media via Getty ImagesResidents are required to wear face masks outside .
Some are fully protected with glasses and gloves .
Zhongbai , a major supermarket chain with locations dotting Wuhan , is a key shopping destination for residents in the city .
Hector Retamal / AFP via Getty ImagesNeighborhood markets are also teeming with shoppers who want to buy fresh vegetables and meat .
Stringer / Getty ImagesAt the same time , couriers have become major suppliers for the city due to the traffic bans .
Stringer / Getty ImagesJingdong , a major online retailer in China that has its own delivery operation , has continued to provide speedy service in Wuhan during the lockdown .
The company has opened a special donation channel and has been delivering supplies to hospitals and charity organizations .
Community workers check the temperature of the couriers frequently .

Number of coronavirus victims grows in Australia amid fears for thousands who came near them .
2020-01-30 22:06:08 +00:00 .
There are fears thousands of Australians have been exposed to the deadly coronavirus as flights to and from China continue to operate .
Queensland Health confirmed the state 's second case of coronavirus infection late on Thursday as a 42 - year - old woman , making her the ninth coronavirus case in Australia , with four confirmed in NSW and three in Victoria .
All have arrived from China ’s Hubei province by air and spent time in Wuhan , the epicentre of the virus .
Queensland authorities continue their desperate search for more than 150 passengers who shared a flight with the state 's two confirmed victims .
There are concerns thousands more have come into contact with the other seven confirmed cases , whether it be on planes into the country or on their arrival in Australia where the patients did n’t immediately show signs of illness .
Dozens across various states are undergoing testing for the virus as authorities try and stem the spread .
On Friday ( AEDT ) , the World Health Organisation declared the coronavirus outbreak a global problem .
On Thursday diners at a Chinese restaurant in Melbourne were warned they may have been exposed to coronavirus , and urged to look out for possible symptoms .
Infectious diseases physician Sanjaya Senanayake said the virus is spread by a droplet in a cough or a sneeze , similar to how influenza is passed on with droplets settling about one metre away .
" Coronavirus may not be the easiest infection to get but it can be transmitted in several ways , ” she said .
It could , for example , potentially spread if a person with coronavirus stands on a street corner coughing for a while and then leaves before someone else walks past .
It could also be spread via contaminated surfaces if someone touches their nose or mouth after touching a surface that has been coughed or sneezed on by an infected person .
It could also be spread through blood , urine and faeces , Prof Senanayake said .
Passengers on the Tiger Air flight TT566 to the Gold Coast on Monday are being contacted by the state government over fears they may have contracted the virus .
Those sitting in rows nine to 3 are at the most serious risk of contracting the virus , according to chief medical officer Dr Jeanette Young .
She said anyone who spent two hours or more exposed to an infectious person in a confined space could be at risk .
The flight time from Melbourne to the Gold Coast is about two hours .
The development came as Queensland Health Minister Steven Miles approved a public health emergency order giving authorities the power to detain suspected coronavirus victims , the Courier - Mail reported .
Under the order Dr Young can give written orders telling people to stay at a particular place , and authorities can use reasonable force on those who do n't comply .
Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk and senior ministers opted not to travel to a Labor caucus meeting in the Gold Coast hinterland so they could manage the health situation , the newspaper reported .
A total of 41 people across Queensland were tested for coronavirus on Thursday .
Meanwhile , there 's no sign of illness in China 's women 's soccer team , who will remain holed up in a Brisbane hotel until Wednesday to ensure they are not carrying the virus .

Up to 200 on Qld flight with virus victim .
2020-01-30 05:26:07 +00:00 .
Up to 200 people were on a flight to the Gold Coast with a man who had the coronavirus A Chinese man with coronavirus shared a flight from Melbourne to the Gold Coast with up to 200 others when he was sick , and four fellow travellers have already fallen ill .
Queensland health authorities are trying to track down everyone who was on the man 's Tiger Airways flight from Melbourne to the Gold Coast on January 27 .
The man , who was in a tour group from the virus epicentre Wuhan , started showing symptoms when he took the flight and steadily became more ill after arriving on the Gold Coast .
But the 44 - year - old spent about 24 hours in the community before calling an ambulance and being taken to hospital where tests revealed he had the virus .
" There are eight other people who were in that tour group and they are all currently in isolation in the Gold Coast University Hospital .
Four of them are unwell and being tested today , " Queensland 's Chief Health Officer Jeannette Young said on Thursday .
" We 'll get those results later today .
Four of them are well at this time , but we 'll continue to monitor them . "
While the man also spent time in Melbourne , Dr Young said she was most concerned about people who shared his flight or came into contact with him on the Gold Coast .
" My concern is the 150 to 200 people on that plane when he started getting symptoms , and then the 24 hours in the community on the Gold Coast , " she said .
Dr Young said anyone who spent two hours or more exposed to an infectious person in a confined space could be at risk .
The flight time from Melbourne to the Gold Coast is about two hours .
She said she did not know where the man was staying but media reports say it was in large , high - rise accommodation at Broadbeach .
The man came from Wuhan and flew to Melbourne via Singapore , landing there on January 22 and then heading to the Gold Coast on January 27 .
Tiger Airways says it 's in the process of contacting affected passengers and crew members , and would direct them to see their doctors .
Anyone who was on the flight has also been urged to call Queensland Health to ensure they take the safest and most appropriate action .
Meanwhile , there 's no sign of illness in China 's women 's soccer team who will remain holed up in a Brisbane hotel until Wednesday to ensure they are not carrying the virus .
The group of 32 players and staff , who travelled from Wuhan , have been confined to their hotel rooms as a precaution .
The team had been due to open the Olympic qualfying tournament against Thailand in Sydney on Monday .

Diners at Melbourne restaurant warned to watch out for coronavirus symptoms .
2020-01-30 01:03:18 +00:00 .
Melbourne diners who ate at a Glen Waverley Chinese restaurant in the city ’s east have been warned they may have been exposed to coronavirus , and urged to look out for possible symptoms .
The warning comes as a sign appeared in the window of The House Of Delight restaurant telling patrons it was closing its doors until February 9 .
Victoria ’s health department confirmed on Wednesday evening that a man in his 60s had become infected with the deadly new virus while travelling in China 's Hubei province .
The department said the man started to feel unwell on January 23 and remained isolated until he had dinner with his family on Australia Day .
The Victorian resident visited the Glen Waverley restaurant with his five family members between 5.30pm and 7 pm on January 26 .
Victoria Chief Health Officer , Dr Brett Sutton , urged anyone who was at the restaurant during this time to be aware of symptoms .
“ That restaurant is OK to go to now , people do n't need to avoid the area or indeed anywhere else , ” he said .
The man 's three adult and two child relatives have been isolated with him .
One has already tested negative for the virus , while the children are being kept away from school .
The restaurant he attended on Australia Day appears to have closed until February 9 , according to a sign posted on the door of the restaurant , The Herald Sun reported .
“ In order to minimize the risk of the Novel Coronavirus , our restaurant is closed from 29th Jan , 2020 to 9th Feb , 2020 , ” the sign reads .
Calls to the restaurant went unanswered on Thursday morning .
Up to 14 people in Victoria await results after being tested for coronavirus , while another 61 have tested negative .
The second case in Victoria , along with Queensland 's first case confirmed on Wednesday evening , raised the national count to seven .
Australia 's Chief Medical Officer is now recommending anyone who has travelled in the Hubei province to self - isolate for 14 days after leaving the Hubei province .
Do you have a story tip ?
Email : newsroomau@yahoonews.com .
You can also follow us on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play .

Wuhan coronavirus leads Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, and Microsoft to close China locations and suspend employee travel unless 'business critical' .
2020-01-29 22:03:55 +00:00 .
SAN FRANCISCO , CALIFORNIA - SEPTEMBER 09 :
A departures board displays cancelled and delayed flights at San Francisco International Airport on September 09 , 2019 in San Francisco , California .
Hundreds of departing and arriving flights at San Francisco International Airport have been cancelled or significantly delayed each day since September 7 as a planned $ 16.2 million runway renovation project gets underway .
The project is expected to be finished by September 27 .
( Photo by Justin Sullivan / Getty Images ) Apple , Amazon , Google , and other major tech companies have announced travel restrictions to and from China as fears grow surrounding the spread of the coronavirus .
The virus has already killed more than 100 people and spread to at least 18 countries , prompting many more countries to warn against travel to China .
Businesses with a significant presence in China are now following suit by banning or limiting employees from traveling to the country as precaution , with some leaving exceptions for " business critical " travel .
Here 's a list of major tech companies who have restricted employee travel so far .
" We place tremendous value and focus on the well - being and safety of our employees .
Out of an abundance of caution , we are restricting business travel to and from China until further notice and encouraging our employees to follow the health and safety guidelines provided by international health agencies such as the CDC and WHO , " an Amazon spokesperson told Business Insider .
Amazon also said it 's approving some exceptions for essential business travel , and that it 's telling employees who do travel to affected regions in China to work from home for two weeks before returning to the office and to seek medical attention first if they experience symptoms .
Apple CEO Tim Cook told analysts during an earnings call Tuesday that the company had restricted employee travel to China except in limited " business - critical situations . "
" We 're taking additional precautions and frequently deep - cleaning our stores as well as conducting temperature checks for employees , " Cook said .
The company has also closed down at least three stores in China because of the coronavirus .
Facebook confirmed to Business Insider that it had halted all non - essential travel to China by its staff .
Employees in China were also directed to work from home , according to Bloomberg .
" Out of an abundance of caution , we have taken steps to protect the health and safety of our employees , " a company spokesperson said in a statement .
Facebook also asked employees who had recently traveled to China to work from home for a period out of caution .

China coronavirus: after a two-day break, Hong Kong has two more cases .
2020-01-29 11:36:20 +00:00 .
A 48 - hour respite from new coronavirus infections came to an end for Hong Kong on Wednesday , after two more patients tested positive for the potentially deadly illness , bringing the local total to 10 , health officials have revealed .
According to the Department of Health , the pair – an elderly couple , aged 72 and 73 – tested positive at Queen Mary Hospital in Pok Fu Lam .
Both are from Wuhan , the city in mainland China ’s Hubei province where the outbreak began .
“ We have to wait for the results of one more test to confirm the cases , ” Dr Chuang Shuk - kwan of the Centre for Health Protection said .
The pair entered Hong Kong on January 22 on a Cathay Dragon flight , and were sent to hospital on the night of January 28 , after spending time at a hotel .
“ The woman had a fever when she was admitted to hospital , higher than 38 degrees Celsius , ” Chuang said , adding the man had his lungs scanned .
Meanwhile in Guangdong province , which borders Hong Kong , authorities said two people from the city were infected with the coronavirus , along with three foreigners .
There are more than 270 confirmed cases in the well - connected and economically important province , a number topped only by Hubei and Zhejiang .
Both Hongkongers had travelled to or lived in Hubei before , according to Chen Zhusheng , deputy head of the provincial health commission .
One of them , who had been working in Wuhan for a long time , arrived in Foshan , Guangdong , on Jan 22 .
They felt unwell on 24 , went to hospital and was put in isolation .
The other travelled to Hubei and arrived in Zhanjiang , another city in the province , on Jan 26 .
Their case was confirmed on 29 .
Before Wednesday ’s new diagnoses in Hong Kong , the number of confirmed infections had stood at eight for two days .
Of the earlier confirmed cases , seven were deemed stable and one was in a serious condition .
On Wednesday , the Hospital Authority said there were 103 patients under isolation in public hospitals in Hong Kong , suspected of having been infected or having had close contact with a confirmed case .
Almost all patients under isolation were in a stable condition , it said .
This article China coronavirus : after a two - day break , Hong Kong has two more cases first appeared on South China Morning Post For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Second Victoria coronavirus case confirmed .
2020-01-29 09:06:16 +00:00 .
Authorities have confirmed a Victorian man remains isolated at home infected with the coronavirus A second person in Victoria has tested positive for the deadly coronavirus , taking the national count to six .
The man tested positive on Wednesday morning but doctors at the Monash Medical Centre assessed him as well enough to stay at home .
The state 's health department said the man in his 60s became unwell on January 23 after returning from the Chinese city of Wuhan , the epicentre of the outbreak .
Although he had isolated himself after feeling unwell , he visited The House Of Delight restaurant in Glen Waverley with his family between 5.30pm and 7 pm on January 26 .
The department urged anyone who was at the restaurant during this time to be aware of symptoms .
" That restaurant is OK to go to now , people do n't need to avoid the area or indeed anywhere else , " Victoria 's Chief Health Officer Dr Brett Sutton said .
" For anyone else in the restaurant at a further distance and for a period of less than two hours ... the risk of transmission , although not absolutely excluded , is very low . "
Dr Sutton said health authorities had followed up with the restaurant , as well as patrons who were there on that evening .
The department said there is no current evidence that passengers or crew on the flight the man took to return to Melbourne are at risk .
Five of the man 's family , three adults and two children , visited the restaurant with him and are also in home isolation .
One of them has tested negative to the virus , while the children are being kept from school .
The Victorian department of education confirmed they will ask children returning from the Hubei province to remain in self - quarantine for 14 days .
Travellers returning from other parts of China are advised to be aware of symptoms , but are excluded from quarantine recommendations .
" As new evidence comes in we will make changes that affect policy .
We make no apology for that , " Dr Sutton said .
Up to 14 people in Victoria await results of their tests , while another 61 have tested negative .
The first Victorian coronavirus case , a man in his 50s , was confirmed on January 25 and he remains in isolation at the Monash Medical Centre in a stable condition .

A teacher's videos inside quarantined Wuhan show the streets eerily deserted and lines out the door at the pharmacy .
2020-01-29 01:28:35 +00:00 .
An Irish teacher 's video blogs from within quarantined Wuhan , China , are giving outsiders a look at what life on lockdown is like .
Chinese officials put Wuhan — the nation 's seventh - largest city — on lockdown last week to slow the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak .
Ben Kavanaugh 's first video about life under quarantine was posted by Channel 4 on YouTube on January 26 and shows him venturing out into the deserted city to stock up on provisions at a grocery store .
Before leaving the house , Kavanaugh took precautions by doubling up on face masks and putting on goggles and gloves .
He then met up with a friend , and the two ventured to the grocery store with suitcases so that they could stock up on enough food and household items to last them " weeks . "
On the walk to the grocery store , Kavanaugh said Wuhan was a city larger than London but that almost no one was out on the street in the morning .
The roads were empty because drivers have been told they would be fined or have their licenses taken away , he said .
At the grocery store , he skipped the meat and produce aisles , likely because the virus has been traced to a food market in Wuhan .
Instead , he stocked up on cookies , cereal , chips , eggs , soda , beer , and bacon .
The lines for the checkout were the longest he 'd ever seen , and customers were allowed to do self - checkout only .
On the way back to his apartment , Kavanaugh passed a pharmacy with a line of people out the door — one of the few signs of life in the city .
In his second video for the news outlet , which was posted on January 28 , Kavanaugh cooked a meal of pasta and hot dogs and talked about how foreign nationals like himself have been in constant communication with each other and their respective governments .
At one point , he talked about how his American friends in a group chat were discussing their flights out of Wuhan .
Later in the video , Kavanaugh said he was also considering leaving , since the British and Irish governments are looking into evacuating their citizens .
He also said it was his birthday and cracked a joke about treating himself to a beer .
" Also , it 's my birthday — what a fun birthday in quarantined Wuhan .
It 's 9 o'clock in the p.m.
so I think after almost a week of quarantine I deserve a birthday beer , " Kavanaugh said .
" I thought Corona , maybe not given the situation , so I went with a different beer .
Not Corona .
To good health ! "

Alberta Cuts Funding While Virus Hampers Oil, Spreads Widen .
2020-01-28 17:49:58 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Alberta is pulling back on borrowing , a move that could contain the recent widening of the province ’s debt risk spreads as the coronavirus slams oil prices , a key revenue source for the western Canadian territory .
“ Our current cash flow forecasts suggest that less financing will be required than what was previously forecast , due in part to actions taken by the government to improve cash management , ” Jerrica Goodwin , Edmonton - based spokeswoman at Alberta ’s finance ministry , said in an email .
“ There are a number of measures related to cash management including a reduction in deficit , ” she said , adding that further details will be disclosed when the next budget is released .
In October , Alberta released a budget plan that called for C$ 12.2 billion to be raised in the long - term debt markets for the fiscal year ended March 31 -- of which C$ 5.5 billion was remaining as of today .
Ontario , by comparison , completed its C$ 31.6 billion borrowing plan last week , according to Laurentian Bank Securities Inc. data .
Meanwhile , Quebec began pre - funding for the following fiscal year in late 2019 .
Investors demand 10.2 basis points more to hold Alberta ’s bonds maturing in September 2029 over similar - duration Ontario securities .
That ’s near the widest since mid - December .
The gap was as tight as 6.9 basis points on Aug. 2 before pushing out to as wide as 12.2 basis points after the federal election .
Alberta had already been playing catch - up to other Canadian provinces , selling C$ 700 million of bonds earlier this month -- its first domestic currency debt offering in almost four months .
Since that Jan. 14 note sale , Alberta ’s bond spreads over those of Ontario and Quebec widened .
“ We will continue to monitor the domestic and global markets and will borrow when we feel it is in the province ’s best interests , not to time the market , ” said Goodwin .
While Alberta bond spreads may widen further in the short term , in the medium term pricing for the province may improve , according to Hosen Marjaee , senior managing director at Manulife Investment Management .
That ’s because , “ pipelines that Enbridge and TransCanada are building are getting close to completion and once they are up and running , there will be much more Alberta oil going through them and more royalties , ” he said .
To contact the reporter on this story
: Esteban Duarte in Toronto at eduarterubia@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story : Nikolaj Gammeltoft at ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net , Jacqueline Thorpe For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

China coronavirus: Hong Kong government asks civil servants to work from home after Lunar New Year holiday and urges private sector to enforce similar arrangements .
2020-01-28 04:51:56 +00:00 .
Most Hong Kong civil servants will be asked to work from home for the rest of this week to minimise the threat of the Wuhan coronavirus spreading in the wider community , the government declared on Tuesday , as it urged the private sector to follow suit .
The arrangement , which will not apply to those who provide urgent and necessary public services , will start from Wednesday to Sunday ( February 2 ) , pending a review by then .
There are about 176,000 civil servants in Hong Kong .
The Leisure and Cultural Services Department also announced the shutting down of all sports centres , public swimming pools , museums , and libraries from Tuesday until further notice .
Businesses based in Hong Kong have also started to roll out plans to allow employees to work from home or extend the Lunar New Year holiday .
Bloomberg has asked employees in Hong Kong , Beijing , and Shanghai to work from home “ until further notice ” , according to an internal memo issued on Monday .
The firm said official trips to mainland China and Hong Kong had been cancelled , while employees returning from mainland or Hong Kong would work remotely for two weeks .
Some divisions in the Hong Kong stock exchange also allowed their staff to work from home until further notice , a source said .
Major law firms , such as Linklaters , have asked their staff to work from home until February 10 respectively .
Accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers has extended Lunar New Year leave from January 28 to January 31 , effectively extending the first working day to February 3 .
This article China coronavirus : Hong Kong government asks civil servants to work from home after Lunar New Year holiday and urges private sector to enforce similar arrangements first appeared on South China Morning Post For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Oil Sinks to Two-Month Low as Asia Virus Threatens Demand .
2020-01-23 15:32:34 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Oil tumbled to a two - month low on speculation that China ’s coronavirus outbreak may dent demand .
Futures declined as much as 3.5 % to below $ 55 a barrel in New York on Thursday as the world ’s biggest oil importer effectively quarantined a major city to contain the SARS - like virus , which Goldman Sachs Group Inc. warned could trim global consumption .
The alert has overshadowed concern over the halt of exports from Libya .
“ Sentiment has turned negative , ” as the coronavirus is set to affect demand , said Andrew Lebow , senior partner at New York consultant Commodity Research Group .
Oil is bearing the brunt of the anxiety due to the potential hit to travel , especially as it ’s happening just before the Lunar New Year holidays , the biggest human migration in the world .
Goldman Sachs predicts the virus may crimp global demand by 260,000 barrels a day this year -- with jet fuel accounting for around two - thirds of the loss -- if the SARS epidemic in 2003 is any guide .
West Texas Intermediate futures for March delivery slid $ 1.77 to $ 54.97 a barrel at 10:06 a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange after earlier falling to as low as $ 54.77 , the lowest since Nov. 20 .
A measure of oil - market volatility rose to the highest level since October .
Brent futures for March settlement declined $ 1.83 to $ 61.38 / bbl .
The global benchmark traded at a $ 6.42 premium to WTI for the same month .
See also :
Nodding Donkeys May Hit Sale Block Amid Oil ’s Shale Makeover China banned travel from Wuhan , a city of 11 million , in efforts to stop the spread of the new virus that has claimed at least 17 lives so far and infected hundreds .
The country is the biggest importer of oil , by far .
The World Health Organization will meet again Thursday to determine if it should declare then outbreak a public health emergency of international concern , after delaying its decision Wednesday .
Libya ’s eastern strongman kept virtually all of the nation ’s oil fields shut , in a show of defiance after world leaders failed to persuade him to sign a peace deal ending the OPEC country ’s civil war .
Libya ’s oil output plunged to the lowest level since August 2011 , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
Meanwhile , in the U.S. , an Energy Information Administration report on Thursday morning is expected to show domestic crude supplies rose by 800,000 barrels last week , according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg .
The American Petroleum Institute reported a 1.57 million - barrel increase in crude inventories .
--With assistance from James Thornhill , Dan Murtaugh and Saket Sundria .
To contact the reporters on this story
: Grant Smith in London at gsmith52@bloomberg.net;Sheela Tobben in New York at vtobben@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story : James Herron at jherron9@bloomberg.net , Jessica Summers , Catherine Traywick For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .

Gold Price Prediction – Prices Consolidate Following Robust US Home Sales .
2020-01-23 08:59:37 +00:00 .
Gold prices traded sideways and continued to hover in a relatively tight range .
Gold prices were buoyed by a higher US dollar and lower US yields .
Prices continue to consolidate .
Traders are focused on the dollar as well as geopolitical events .
The current virus in China has caught the market ’s attention and has been a minor tailwind for gold prices .
The last time the world saw this kind of virus in Asia , known as SARS , gold prices rallied more than 27 % over the next 12 - months from March 2003 to March 2004 .
The spread of a new illness that can be pass from person to person hammered Asian stock prices helping to buoy gold .
The first case of the coronavirus originating in China can be confirmed in Washington State .
The BOJ had its monetary policy decision keeping rates unchanged .
Gold prices moved sideways on Wednesday and continue to form a cup and saucer continuation pattern .
This is generally a pause that refreshes higher .
Short - term support is seen near the 10 - day moving average at 1,555 .
Resistance is seen near the January highs at 1,611 .
Short - term is negative to neutral as the fast stochastic heads lower after reversing a buy signal .
The trajectory of the fast stochastic is flattish , which also means potential consolidation .
The relative strength index ( RSI ) is moving sideways to lower also reflecting consolidation .
Medium - term momentum has turned negative as the MACD ( moving average convergence divergence ) index generated a crossover sell signal .
This occurs as the MACD line ( the 12 - day moving average minus the 26 - day moving average ) crosses above the MACD signal line ( the 9 - day moving average of the MACD line ) .
The MACD histogram is printing in the red with a declining trajectory which points to lower prices .
US home sales rose in December .
Sales of previously owned homes increased by 3.6 % in December compared with November to reach a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.54 million , according to the National Association of Realtors .
On a year over year basis , December sales of existing homes were up 10.8 % , through December 2018 .
This article was originally posted on FX Empire

Coronavirus: First case of deadly Chinese virus in US, officials say .
2020-01-22 17:40:39 +00:00 .
The US has reported its first confirmed case of the deadly Wuhan coronavirus - revealing that a traveller returning from China had been diagnosed by authorities close to Seattle .
The Centres for Disease Control , the nation ’s preeminent health institute , said the man , aged in his 30s , had been been taken to hospital in the town of Everett last week after suffering with pneumonia .
Reports said the individual , a US resident , had recently travelled to the central Chinese city of Wuhan , where the current outbreak is believed to have originated .
The mysterious respiratory infection that has killed at least six people and sickened hundreds more in Asia .
The Washington Post said the man travelled back to Washington state before health officials began screening travellers from Wuhan at Los Angeles , San Francisco and New York ’s John F Kennedy international airports from January 17 onwards .
The newspaper said the man was in a stable condition , and was being treated at the Providence Regional Medical Centre in Everett , in Snohomish County , located 30 miles north of Seattle .
Nancy Messonnier , director of the National Centre for Immunisation and Respiratory Diseases , told reporters she had last week predicted it was possible a case of the coronavirus could be detected in the US .
She said the CDC had now confirmed such a case and was expecting further incidents in the coming days and weeks .
She said the screening of travellers from Wuhan was also being extended to Atlanta ’s Hartsfield - Jackson Atlanta International Airport and Chicago O’Hare International airport .
State epidemiologist for communicable diseases Scott Lindquist , said that the man had arrived at Seattle International Airport on January 15 , though not on a direct flight from Wuhan .
Screening at the three international US airports began on January .
He said the man researched news about the virus on the internet and decided to contact his physician on January 19 .
Samples were dispatched to there CDC who are able to confirm the virus on January 20 .
“ He slipped past the screening , so to speak , ” said Mr Lindquist , who said the man had been sent to hospital out of an “ abundance of caution ” and in order to better monitor him .
“ He ’s a nice man .
He ’s cooperating , ” he said .
Officials said the man said he had not visited any of the markets in Wuhan reportedly connected withe virus , or encountered anyone who was ill .
Officials in Washington state said the man , who was not identified , was not considered a threat to medical staff or the public .
“ We believe the risk to the public is low , ” Chris Spitters , a senior official at Snohomish Health District , told reporters .
The Associated Press said the US was the fifth country to report seeing the illness , following China , Thailand , Japan , and South Korea .
The news came as the World Health Organisation was due on Wednesday to to meet and decide whether to declare the outbreak an international public health emergency .
In China face masks have sold out and travellers have been checked for fevers at major transport hubs ahead of the lunar New Year – a national holiday which many take advantage of by travelling across the country and abroad .
Outside the Wuhan Medical Treatment Centre , where many of the coronavirus patients are receiving care , several workers were dressed in full - body biohazard suits , supplemented by goggles , masks and plastic wrapped around their shoes .

The last time China was hit by a deadly illness like the Wuhan virus, it covered it up and 774 people died. There are fears it could happen again. .
2020-01-21 16:12:42 +00:00 .
A mysterious new virus is sweeping through parts of Asia , infecting more than 200 people since it was first detected in Wuhan , China , in December .
The new illness is believed to have originated from a seafood market in Wuhan , a densely populated central Chinese city home to about 11 million people .
It has been dubbed the Wuhan virus , or the 2019 - nCoV , and is considered to a coronavirus , which causes cold - like symptoms and is considered " zoonotic " and can be transmitted between animals and humans .
According to the World Health Organization , signs of coronavirus infection include respiratory symptoms , fever , cough , and breathing difficulties .
In more severe cases , the infection can cause pneumonia , kidney failure , and even death .
The virus is considered to be a " novel coronavirus " because it is a new strain that had not previously been identified in humans .
There are no vaccinations for the disease , though the WHO has published interim guidelines for ways countries can prepare for this virus , including monitoring sick people , treating and quarantining patients , and communicating with the public about the spread of infection .
As of Tuesday , at least four people in Wuhan had died from the virus , according to local authorities .
The virus has also spread to other Chinese cities , including Beijing and Shenzhen , as well as to South Korea , Thailand , and Japan .
Several unconfirmed cases have also been reported in the UK and Australia .
Authorities by late Monday had confirmed 217 cases of infection in China , according to Reuters .
Of that number , 198 people were infected in Wuhan alone , which was triple the number of cases disclosed the previous day by Chinese authorities .
On Tuesday , Wuhan health authorities said dozens of patients remained in hospitals with the virus , some critically ill and all under quarantine .
But China 's handling of 2003 's SARS epidemic has sparked concerns among observers of another pandemic and state - sanctioned cover - up .
Fears of another global outbreak stem from China 's handling of the deadly SARS virus in the early 2000s .
Experts have noted similarities between the Wuhan virus and the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome , which reached epidemic proportions from November 2002 to July 2003 .
The epidemic consisted of 8,098 cases of the disease and 774 deaths across at least 30 countries .
The outbreak of the illness was traced to China 's southeastern Guangdong province and was genetically traced to have spread through bats .
During the initial stages of the outbreak , the Chinese government concealed information from the public , limiting mitigation efforts and exacerbating the spread of disease .
The country also had no government agencies in place at the time to deal with a public - health emergency .
The government did not inform the WHO of the outbreak until February 2003 , allowing the disease to flourish .
According to The Sydney Morning Herald , doctors in Beijing were ordered by authorities to hide SARS patients from WHO officials during inspections .
The tight - lipped response from the Chinese government on the disease had both political and economic motivations , meant to reduce public panic and keep the status quo within the country .
Taiwanese legislators even accused China of unleashing the virus as part of a biological warfare campaign , though no conclusive evidence has been found , according to Reuters .

Sadness on the border as France turns back Belgian trippers .
2020-05-31 09:14:15 +00:00 .
For hundreds of Belgians hoping to spend time with French friends and relatives after almost three months of lockdown , the sunny holiday weekend proved a grim disappointment .
While families with ties in the Netherlands , Germany and Luxembourg were able to put the coronavirus epidemic out of their minds for a short while , the French border remained shut .
Belgian travellers without written proof that they were on essential business were turned back by French police , despite an announcement from their own government that reunions and shopping trips can resume .
Renee - France Ringard had tears in her eyes as she told AFP how she had hoped to cross into France to see her elderly father in the suburbs of Lille for the first time in more than two - and - a - half - months .
" The police officer told us there had been no coordination between the French and the Belgians , " she told AFP at the frontier , before turning back for the 100 - kilometre ( 60 - mile ) reverse trip to Brussels .
The European Commission has attempted to coordinate the EU response to the global pandemic , but health measures are a matter for member states and the once largely border - free bloc is now a patchwork of regulations .
Capitals are beginning to relax their rules , hoping they can revive the devastated tourism industry in time for the summer season , but the return to work is just as chaotic as was the scramble to lock the continent down .
" Since this morning , more than 100 vehicles have had to turn around , " a French police officer told AFP in the border town of Saint - Aybert .
" We 've received no new orders so we 're running the checks as before . "
Under French lockdown rules , travellers must have a signed statement explaining a pressing need for a journey -- such as a essential work mission , a cross - border commute or transporting a child to a parent with joint custody .
But on Friday , Belgium 's Interior Minister Pieter De Crem announced that Belgians could from Saturday once again visit their loved ones , or even just do their shopping , in neighbouring countries .
Luxembourg welcomed this , and travellers crossed into Germany and the Netherlands without much trouble , but no - one seems to have told France .
- ' Seems unfair ' -
" We saw the Belgian minister on the television , " said Yvon Mathurin and Paule Wetz , a couple in their fifties , who were looking forward to seeing their daughter and grandchildren in Aniche , 50 kilometres inside France .
" It seems unfair .
There 's no coordination in Europe , " Wetz complained .
Mathurin , meanwhile , reflected a mood of frustration in a Belgium that has adapted to a continent without borders : " The governments should agree something . "
In a mark of how banal popping into France had become before the epidemic , Andre Dhaeyer just wanted to get some cheese and mineral water .
He was bemused but less upset than those divided from loved ones to be turned back after hearing news of a re - opening on the radio and setting off for France .
" Well , I 'm not going to die of thirst , " he said .
A Belgian government spokesman admitted there has been some " confusion in the press " and the interior ministry said French residents can visit their families in Belgium , even if the reverse will not be true until a least June 15 .

Nike responds to George Floyd attack: Don’t do it — 'Don’t turn your back on racism' .
2020-05-30 07:57:33 +00:00 .
In an email to Nike ( NKE ) staff obtained by Yahoo Finance , Nike CEO John Donahoe explained why the company decided to respond via Instagram ( FB ) to the racially motivated attacks on George Floyd , Ahmaud Arbery , Christian Cooper , and Breonna Taylor .
White text over a black background , the post reads : “ For once , just do n’t do it .
Do n’t pretend there ’s not a problem in America .
Do n’t turn your back on racism .
Do n’t accept innocent lives being taken from us .
Do n’t make any more excuses .
Do n’t think this does n’t affect you .
Do n’t sit back and be silent .
Do n’t think you ca n’t be part of the change .
Let ’s all be part of the change . ”
In his email , the Nike CEO said he felt compelled to address the injustices .
“ Team , As we ’ve watched racial tragedies expose prejudice and injustice in our cities over these past few weeks , I ca n’t stop thinking about the individuals impacted : Ahmaud Arbery .
Christian Cooper .
Breonna Taylor .
George Floyd .
The horrible killings and racist actions serve as a sickening reminder of what too many people live through every day in America , ” Donahoe said .
“ It is absolutely wrong what ’s happening in our communities , to our friends and family members .
These tragedies are not unique to the U.S.
Far from it – we see violent incidents in countries all over the world , fueled by hatred and ignorance . ”
WASHINGTON , USA - MAY 29 : A person holds a banner reading " Justice for George Floyd " , as crowds gather to protest after the death of George Floyd in Washington D.C.
United States on May 29 , 2020 .
( Photo by Yasin Ozturk / Anadolu Agency via Getty Images )
More Donahoe made it clear that the company does not tolerate prejudice .
“ Let me be as clear as I can : Nike is opposed to bigotry .
We are opposed to hatred and inequality in all its forms , indirect and overt .
While Nike can not solve injustice , I believe we have a responsibility to work toward addressing it to the best of our ability . ”
Donahoe also touched upon the COVID-19 pandemic and how , along with the racist attacks , are weighing on employees ’ minds — as well as the national psyche .
“ I know these have been a difficult few months .
The COVID-19 pandemic has brought additional fear and tragedy into our lives , with striking disparities in how certain populations have experienced this crisis , particularly in the United States .
With its devastating impact on communities of color – including Black , Latinx , Asian and Native American populations – COVID-19 has further exposed deep - seated inequities that are sadly systemic in our society , ” he said .
“ It has also served as a reminder of the racism that is still far too prevalent in our culture .
Racial bigotry has created enormous pain and tragedy in the Black community .
And since the start of the pandemic , we have seen a disturbing increase in racism toward Asian communities worldwide .
The fact that these injustices – and too many others – continue is horrific and unacceptable .
I know many teammates in the U.S. and around the world are feeling tired of having to justify their existence and to fight for their dignity and humanity . ”
Donahoe implored Nike staff not to feel daunted by the events facing the nation .
“ I encourage all of us to not be daunted by the enormity of what we face today .
The tragedies we face , we face together .
We choose to act in a way that is authentic and true to our values .
We are compelled by our purpose : Until We All Win .
And we will never ever quit until that becomes a reality . ”
Reggie Wade is a writer for Yahoo Finance .
Follow him on Twitter at @ReggieWade .
Read more : Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , LinkedIn , and reddit .

In rescue effort, Fed has broad stake in corporate America's fortunes .
2020-05-30 04:53:22 +00:00 .
By Dan Burns and Ann Saphir ( Reuters ) -
The U.S. central bank now has a stake in the fortunes of a broad swath of corporate America after buying about $ 1.3 billion ( 1.06 billion pounds ) of bond funds with debt issued by firms in all walks of the world 's biggest economy , from Apple Inc to a clutch of companies in bankruptcy .
The details on holdings in the Fed 's Secondary Market Corporate Credit Facility , one of nearly a dozen emergency programs the Fed has rolled out since March to respond to the coronavirus crisis , were published Friday .
The Fed 's largest investment - grade fund holding - iShares iBoxx US Dollar Investment Grade Corporate Bond ETF - contains 30 Apple bonds giving the Fed about $ 5.7 million of exposure to the maker of iPhones through that ETF alone as of May 19 .
Apple is also a holding in other ETFs the Fed bought .
The largest of the facility 's junk bond fund holdings - iShares iBoxx High Yield Corporate Bond ETF - gives the Fed around $ 25,000 of exposure to three companies that have filed for bankruptcy since the health crisis erupted , including $ 14,000 to car rental company Hertz , $ 10,000 to retailer JC Penney , and $ 1,500 to department store operator Neiman Marcus .
All told the Fed made 158 purchases of shares in 15 exchange - traded funds from May 12 and May 18 , the data showed .
Until the health crisis , the Fed had bought U.S. Treasuries and government - backed bonds .
The SMCCF 's purchases of bond ETFs represent entirely new territory .
LQD , the third largest U.S. taxable bond ETF , holds bonds from such banks as Bank of America Corp and Wells Fargo Co , as well as telecom operators ATT Inc and
Verizon Communications Inc.
The fund was the Fed facility 's largest holding , at $ 326.3 million .
The SMCCF also bought shares in six of the seven largest ETFs devoted to high - yield - or junk - bonds , accounting for $ 223.4 million , of 17 % of its overall portfolio .
The Fed 's investment in HYG was just over $ 100 million .
( Reporting By Dan Burns and Ann Saphir ;
editing by Grant McCool )

Xinhua Silk Road: E. China's Changzhou city to promote tourism via live broadcast .
2020-05-30 04:17:08 +00:00 .
BEIJING , May 29 , 2020 /PRNewswire/ -- A series of live broadcasts of tourist spots in Changzhou City of east China 's Jiangsu Province , will be jointly launched by Xinhua News Agency and Kuaishou , a leading live streaming platform in China , on May 30 and May 31 .
The live broadcast , a new move of Changzhou to promote its tourism industry , will present two of its major tourist attractions , the Oriental Salt Lake Resort and the Changdang Lake , with activities including shrimp fishing , tasting local food and learning local culture .
Dinosaur Park , Tianmu lake , Ancient Yancheng City , Great Pagota , Orient Salt Lake City , Ancient Canal ...
Changzhou has put great efforts in developing tourism in recent years , including exploring cultural heritage , promoting major tourism projects and encouraging innovation .
Changzhou received nearly 80 million tourists from home and abroad in 2019 , raking in a total revenue of nearly 120 billion yuan .
The added value of its tourism industry accounted for 7.6 percent of the provincial GDP .
Major tourism barometers of Changzhou have been steadily ranked among the top in Jiangsu Province .
It 's not easy for Changzhou 's tourism industry to get where it is today .
Compared with Suzhou , Wuxi , Nanjing and other cities in the southern part of Jiangsu , Changzhou has no famous mountains or great rivers .
However , this situation was reversed in 2000 , as Changzhou , a famous industrial city , has successfully broken through resource constraints by opening a dinosaur museum and a dinosaur theme park .
The park was graded as a national 4A tourist attraction after just over one year of opening .
At a conference on promoting tourism development held in March , Changzhou introduced a series of measures , from strengthening financial support , activating the local tourism market , encouraging travel agencies to expand customer base , promoting tourism consumption , to improving attraction and education of relevant talents .
" The tourism industry has been hardly hit by the COVID-19 epidemic , " said Party secretary of Changzhou Qi Jiabin , " and we have worked out relevant policies and will allot 300 million yuan to support the development of cultural and tourism industry and promote tourism consumption .
"
The live broadcasts will be launched through " kuaikan " , literally meaning quick view , a cluster of short - video accounts of Xinhua News Agency on platforms such as Douyin , Kuaishou and Weibo , mainly focusing on business and lifestyle news .
See the original link : https://en.imsilkroad.com/p/313855.html?from=singlemessageisappinstalled=0
View original content : http://www.prnewswire.com / news - releases / xinhua - silk - road - e - chinas - changzhou - city - to - promote - tourism - via - live - broadcast-301068148.html
SOURCE
Xinhua Silk Road Information Service

Time for Europe ETFs on Stimulus Optimism? .
2020-05-29 19:37:54 +00:00 .
European equities should see a green stretch ahead thanks to the new stimulus and reopening of economies .
The European Commission recently unveiled a plan to borrow 750 billion euros ( $ 826.5 billion ) on the market and then disburse to EU countries , which will include 500 billion euros in grants and 250 billion euros in loans .
This will help them recover from the coronavirus slump .
Out of the 500 billion euros in loans , 310 billion will be deployed in green and digital transitions .
The initiative has been viewed as incredible as Germany “ had always opposed the idea of jointly - issued debt , even during previous crises , ” per CNBC .
Austria , the Netherlands , Sweden and Denmark , however , are against the concept of grant .
Instead , they support the loan format and seek economic reform commitments in response to any financial aid , CNBC noted .
The allocation of these funds will be done via the European budget , which is a common basket that receives aids from all 27 member countries and finances various projects across the Eurozone .
Investors should expect a strict negotiation among countries in the coming days .
In order to finance some of the incremental costs , the European Commission proposed implementing a carbon border duty , a tax on plastics , a common consolidated corporate tax base and a digital tax .
It also proposed that the EU budget should receive a bigger share of the Value Added Tax paid by governments to the EU .
Investors should note that apart from the latest stimulus plan , the ECB launched an $ 820 billion coronavirus package in March .
Apart from this , the ECB restarted QE from November 2019 and has a negative interest in place ( read : ETFs to Gain on ECB 's Coronavirus Emergency Stimulus Rollout ) .
ETFs to Gain
Given the stimulus optimism , the following ETFs should gain ahead .
These ETFs gained at least 1 % on May 28 , reflecting the stimulus news .
Notably , the common currency euro also gained strength and Invesco CurrencyShares Euro Trust FXE added 0.65 % on the day .
Winning ETFs in Focus First Trust Germany AlphaDEX Fund FGM – Up 2.64%on May 28
iShares MSCI Denmark ETF EDEN – Up 2.03 % on May 28
iShares MSCI Sweden ETF EWD – Up 2.00 % on May 28
ProShares MSCI Europe Dividend Growers ETF EUDV – Up 1.96 % on May 28 iShares MSCI Italy Index ETF EWI – Up 1.87 % on May 28 iShares Edge MSCI Min Vol Europe ETF EUMV – Up 1.6 % on May 28
Vanguard FTSE Europe ETF VGK – Up 1 % on May 28
Want key ETF info delivered straight to your inbox ?
Zacks ’ free Fund Newsletter will brief you on top news and analysis , as well as top - performing ETFs , each week .
Get it free Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research ?
Today , you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days .
Click to get this free report Invesco CurrencyShares Euro Trust ( FXE ): ETF Research Reports iShares Edge MSCI Min Vol Europe ETF ( EUMV ): ETF Research Reports iShares MSCI Italy ETF ( EWI ): ETF Research Reports Vanguard FTSE Europe ETF ( VGK ): ETF Research Reports ProShares MSCI Europe Dividend Growers ETF ( EUDV ): ETF Research Reports iShares MSCI Sweden ETF ( EWD ): ETF Research Reports First Trust Germany AlphaDEX ETF ( FGM ): ETF Research Reports iShares MSCI Denmark ETF ( EDEN ): ETF Research Reports
To read this article on Zacks.com click here .
Zacks Investment Research Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research ?
Today , you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days .
Click to get this free report

2020 May Be Another Lost Year For General Electric, But BofA Is Still Bullish .
2020-05-29 17:56:34 +00:00 .
It ’s been another difficult year for General Electric Company ( NYSE : GE ) investors , with the stock down another 40.7 % year to date to under $ 7 .
One Wall Street analyst said GE ’s 2020 sell - off is a buying opportunity for long - term investors , but they should keep their near - term free cash flow expectations in check .
The GE Analyst Bank of America analyst Andrew Obin reiterated his Buy rating and $ 11 price target for GE stock .
The GE Thesis GE and its investors started off the year with relatively high hopes for FCF .
At an investor conference this week , GE CEO Larry Culp suggested the economic downturn will likely make 2020 another negative FCF year for GE .
GE is now projecting negative industrial FCF of between $ 3.5 billion and $ 4.5 billion in the second quarter alone .
Looking ahead , Obin said he anticipates a slow pace of recovery for GE ’s aviation business .
However , he projects a stronger rebound in GE ’s health care business given orders for products diagnosing and treating COVID-19 more than doubled in the second quarter .
Meanwhile , supply chain issues impacting GE ’s power and renewables segment are improving , and the company is on track to ship at least 45 heavy - duty gas turbines in 2020 .
While the downturn has been a bump in the road for GE , Obin said he believes GE should be able to weather the storm .
“ We see GE having the financial flexibility to weather near - term revenue declines and continue its turn - around progress , ” he wrote in a Friday note .
Benzinga ’s Take
It seems GE ’s financial situation is far better than it has been in recent years , and the company ’s balance sheet is stable and flexible enough to endure yet another difficult year .
However , GE investors are likely growing tired of hearing about how a turnaround is just around the corner after years of underperformance and lackluster FCF and earnings numbers .
Do you agree with this take ?
Email feedback@benzinga.com
with your thoughts .
Related Links :
How Trading In Ford , GE And Other Volatile Stocks Could Be Linked To Casino Closures
Revisiting Harry Markopolos ' Call That ' GE Is One Recession Away From Chapter 11 '
Photo credit :
Momoneymoproblemz , via Wikimedia Commons
Latest Ratings for GE
Date Firm Action From To
May 2020 UBS Maintains
Buy Apr 2020 Credit Suisse Maintains Neutral
Apr 2020 UBS Maintains Buy View More Analyst Ratings for GE View the Latest Analyst Ratings
See more from Benzinga
© 2020 Benzinga.com .
Benzinga does not provide investment advice .
All rights reserved .

PlayStation 5 games showcase set for June 4 .
2020-05-29 17:17:52 +00:00 .
Sony Interactive Entertainment will unveil a first look at some of the PlayStation 5 's games in an hour - long June 4 showcase starting at 8 pm UTC .
From the sounds of things , we wo n't get a retail price nor a good look at the PlayStation 5 itself for a little while .
For now , though , Sony 's PlayStation division has a Future of Gaming event at which it will preview " the games you 'll be playing after PlayStation 5 launches " towards the end of 2020 .
The June 4 event starts at 1 pm PDT , 4 pm EDT , 8 pm UTC , 9 pm GMT , 10 pm Central Europe and South Africa , then on June 5 at 1.30am in India , 4 am in Singapore , the Philippines , Malaysia and Beijing , China , 5 am in South Korea and Japan and 6 am in Sydney , Australia .
It will be broadcast through PlayStation 's YouTube and Twitch channels .
Even though the presentation would n't have taken place at June 's traditional video games industry event , the Electronic Entertainment Expo ( E3 ) -- PlayStation had withdrawn long before COVID-19 forced its cancellation -- SIE President and CEO Jim Ryan noted that " for the first time , we will all be virtually experiencing the excitement together " via the online showcase .
" This is part of our series of PS5 updates and , rest assured , after next week 's showcase , we will still have much to share with you . "
PlayStation fans had been given a taste of the new console 's potential via a May 13 technical demo prepared by Epic Games .
The studio may be best known for " Fortnite , " but is also responsible for a widely used game creation suite , the Unreal Engine .
Xbox went first with its own games showcase for the Xbox Series X nearly a month earlier on May 7 .
It benefited greatly from preview material for Ubisoft 's just - announced Nordic action adventure " Assassin 's Creed : Valhalla , " and introduced visually impressive shooter " Bright Memory Infinite , " rally racer " Dirt 5 , " island exploration " Call of the Sea , " nocturnal power struggle " Vampire : The Masquerade - Bloodlines 2 " and space shooter " Chorus : Rise as One , " among others .
While Microsoft 's Xbox division used the occasion to embark on its own series of monthly Xbox Series X presentations , it declined to forecast its June event , instead teasing that " Halo Infinite " would be shown alongside a wider selection of internal studio titles in July .
So what might we see at the PlayStation event ?
The console manufacturer is staying mum for the moment .
Already confirmed for PlayStation 5 are sci - fi action game " Godfall " and a mystery title from the " Uncharted Collection " and " Shadow of the Colossus " conversion studio .
Then there 's the ubiquitous " Fortnite , " as well as " Destiny 2 " and " Warframe , " plus " Assassin 's Creed : Valhalla , " " Dirt 5 , " " V : TMB 2 " and " Chorus " among the number .

Feds provide more funds for Indigenous communities as GDP falls .
2020-05-29 17:05:32 +00:00 .
The COVID-19 pandemic 's economic toll came into sharper focus on Friday , while the federal government announced new funding to help remote Indigenous communities cope with the virus .
Statistics Canada announced gross domestic product fell at an annualized rate of 8.2 per cent in the first three months of 2020 , even though efforts to contain the novel coronavirus by shuttering businesses and schools did n't begin in earnest until March .
Meanwhile , Ottawa announced an additional $ 650 million for First Nations , Inuit and Metis communities , in addition to $ 305 million the feds had previously promised .
" Although we 've made progress , there are still communities that are not properly equipped to handle a COVID-19 outbreak , " Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said .
" We need to address that . "
The new money will go toward hiring nurses and
purchasing specialized supplies , enhancing an on - reserve income assistance program and building 12 new shelters for Indigenous women and girls fleeing violence .
Remote Indigenous communities are considered among the most vulnerable during the pandemic .
Residents often have no ready access to health care , and many live in overcrowded conditions that make it difficult to isolate those who may have been exposed .
While there have been some isolated outbreaks in such communities , officials ' worst fears about COVID-19 spreading through First Nations have so far not materialized .
The developments came as several provinces announced new efforts to root out the novel coronavirus , with Ontario Premier Doug Ford set to unveil a new testing strategy later Friday .
In New Brunswick , officials were working their way through a web of people who may have been infected by a health - care worker who did not self - isolate upon his return from a trip to Quebec .
Officials have said that before he was suspended from practice , the health - care professional came into contact with 100 people .
A cluster that grew to six confirmed cases on Thursday has led to the adjournment of the New Brunswick legislature and the rollback of reopening measures in a northern region of the province .
By midday Friday , the number of cases in the country had climbed to 89,386 , including 6,979 deaths .
Quebec reported another 530 cases of the virus , sending the total in that province above the 50,000 mark .
It also announced another 61 deaths for a total of 4,363 .
This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 29 , 2020 .
Nicole Thompson , The Canadian Press

2021 Ford F-150 to officially debut June 25 .
2020-05-29 16:39:49 +00:00 .
See Full Image Gallery Ford will officially unveil the 2021 F-150 via a live stream on June 28 , company representatives confirmed Friday , putting to rest rumors of further delays as manufacturing operations in Michigan restart in the wake of coronavirus - related shutdowns .
The unveiling will take place at 8:00 p.m. EDT .
The next - generation F-150 is expected to be offered in both hybrid and battery - electric variants , though both may be introduced later in the new truck 's life cycle .
The interior has also been at least partially spied in the wild , showing off a new , all - digital cluster and redesigned dashboard .
This online introduction is good news for potential buyers who originally expected to be able to place orders for the new F-150 as early as mid - June .
Previous hints as to the F-150 production restart came largely from industry insiders .
From that report , we learned that Ford will tentatively open F-150 ordering July 15 ( one month later than the initial June 15 target ) .
Assembly is expected to begin on Oct. 12 at the Dearborn Truck Plant and Nov. 9 at the Kansas City Assembly Plant in Missouri .
As a result , customers should not expect deliveries until late fall at the very earliest , and even that may be optimistic as those dates are still based on leaked information , rather than any official confirmation from Ford .
Ford initially shut down North American manufacturing in March .
Michigan lifted restrictions on the manufacturing industry on March 18 , at which point limited operations began at Ford 's Dearborn facility .
Work was halted at both Dearborn and the company 's Chicago assembly plant after workers at both tested positive for COVID-19 after production resumed .
We 've yet to hear any updates to Ford 's plans to unveil the new Bronco SUV and smaller Bronco Sport .
Both were originally planned to be revealed in mid - March , ahead of the company 's flagship pickup .

India Stocks Snap Two Sessions of Gains Ahead of Growth Data .
2020-05-29 05:22:46 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Indian stocks fell , set to snap two days of gains , ahead of data that will indicate the extent that growth was slowing before a lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus .
The SP BSE Sensex dropped 0.7 % to 31,984.44 as of 10:05 a.m in Mumbai , while the NSE Nifty 50 Index retreated by a similar magnitude .
Both measures are down at least 4 % this month after April ’s rebound from record losses on March 23 , when the lockdown was imposed .
India ’s economic scorecard for the three months through March , due after markets close today , will probably show growth slowed to 1.6 % from a year earlier , estimates in a Bloomberg survey show .
The effect of the lockdown prompted Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to earlier this week predict a record annual contraction of 5 % for the year that began April 1 .
” Investors will watch for prospects of some companies restarting their production and getting demand back , ” said Deven Choksey , a strategist at KRChoksey Investment Managers Pvt in Mumbai .
“ It will be a stock - specific market . ”
Read : India ’s Key Growth Engine Grinds to Halt in Sign of Slump
The yield on India ’s 10 - year benchmark bond was little changed at 5.75 % , while the rupee strengthened 0.1 % to 75.69 per U.S. dollar .
Of the 28 Nifty 50 companies that have announced results for the quarter through March so far , only nine have beaten analysts ’ expectations .
The earnings season has been extended through June 30 to account for filing issues posed by the lockdown .
The Numbers
Eleven of 19 sector sub - indexes compiled by BSE Ltd. fell , led by a measure of banks ; the SP BSE Bankex is down 1.5 % after a two - day rallyHDFC Bank Ltd. contributed the most to the Sensex decline , dropping 2.1 % , while Axis Bank Ltd. had the biggest fall , dropping 3.6 % Market - related stories
Barclays , Nomura Back Offices in India Face Lockdown FalloutIndia ’s Economic Growth
May Slip to 1.6 % Amid Lockdown :
Chart
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Planning a visit to Las Vegas when hotels, casinos reopen June 4? Here are the rules you need to know .
2020-05-29 01:38:34 +00:00 .
LAS VEGAS – Planning a visit next week to post - pandemic Las Vegas ?
Expect to get your temperature checked .
Nevada gaming authorities released a set of rules before Las Vegas Strip properties open in the wake of the coronavirus shutdown next week – and mandatory temperature checks are part of the Phase 2 reopening program , reported the Reno Gazette Journal , which is part of the USA TODAY Network .
The updated guidelines were released Wednesday after a workshop meeting between health and public safety officials and the state ’s Gaming Control Board .
Several Las Vegas hotel - casinos – including Caesars Palace , Bellagio , MGM Grand and Wynn Resorts – announced their official reopening date as June 4 .
Here 's what you need to know before hotel - casinos reopen :
Temperature checks
All guests must have their temperatures taken on arrival , and properties must have medical crews on site at all times .
There must be designated areas where visitors can be tested for COVID-19 and wait for results .
Masks available on request
Casinos companies such as Wynn Resorts , MGM and Caesars Entertainment announced all employees will be required to wear masks at all times .
The Gaming Control Board requires all properties to have masks available for quests , who will be strongly encouraged to wear them .
Casinos Do n't expect to grab a slot machine next to your sweetheart or best friend .
Gambling in the time of COVID-19 will be more solitary , and occupancy limits in gaming areas will be cut in half .
Tourists will see chairs and stools in front of every other gaming machine .
Properties must regularly disinfect gaming machines , chairs and other equipment .
Dealers will even offer card players a complimentary pump of hand sanitizer between hands .
Crowd police Social distancing will be an everyday part of resort life .
Gathering in groups – at one time a staple of the Las Vegas experience – will be prohibited .
Gaming authorities want casino employees to make sure guests do n't bunch together .
Checking in , waiting for a table
All restaurants , bars and shops and the casino floor will have plenty of signs reminding guests about distancing .
Some properties will use plexiglass barriers where distancing is a challenge .
At MGM properties , a contactless check - in system through the MGM Resorts App will allow hotel guests to go through the process on their personal devices with minimal interactions .
At restaurants , guests can expect digital menus to view on mobile devices .
To stop groups congregating while they wait for a table , texts will notify guests when their seats are ready .
All clubs will remain closed
Do n’t expect to hit the clubs , as they 'll stay shuttered until further notice .
Airlines pledge to add service American Airlines plans to boost its service into Las Vegas to 14 flights a day , up from 10 , starting June 4 , spokesman Ross Feinstein said .
The airline offers nonstop flights to Vegas from Charlotte , North Carolina ; Chicago , Dallas - Fort Worth , Phoenix and Miami .
Southwest and United said they will add back service to Las Vegas as demand warrants .
Ed Komenda writes about Las Vegas for the Reno Gazette Journal and the USA TODAY Network .
Contributing : Chris Woodyard
This article originally appeared on Reno Gazette Journal :
Las Vegas casinos reopening June 4 with new coronavirus rules in place

Keith Lemon says Celebrity Juice return depends on getting the "right" person to replace Holly Willoughby .
2020-05-28 23:59:03 +00:00 .
Celebrity Juice host Keith Lemon has once again addressed the show 's future now that long - running team captain Holly Willoughby has officially left .
After 12 years on the show , Holly confirmed that the latest series of ITV2 's Celebrity Juice would be her last earlier this month , and Keith Lemon has now admitted that the show 's future depends on finding the right person to replace her .
" If we get the combination right , it 'll come back and it 'll all be new and nice , " Keith explained on the Heart Radio Breakfast Show this week .
Related : Holly Willoughby gets hilariously called out on Celebrity Juice after apparent AJ and Curtis Pritchard blunder " Lots of names have been put in a pot and sent to television people , to the TV big wigs , and I guess they 'll decide from the names that we have chosen .
" Holly 's departure from the show comes just over a year after her fellow original team captain Fearne Cotton exited the series back in December 2018 , with Paddy McGuinness and then Spice Girl Mel B later taking over .
" It 's not an easy job though do you know ? "
Keith continued .
" It depends how drunk I am whether or not it 's easy .
it 's a good job .
Holly will tell you it 's the funnest show that will ever happen . "
Related : Celebrity Juice almost lost another star when Fearne Cotton quit This Morning host Holly 's final episode of Celebrity Juice aired earlier this month , although the star did n't quite get a proper send - off from the show as the coronavirus pandemic meant that Celebrity Juice was airing its lockdown specials .
Since the news of Holly 's exit , a couple of names have been floated as possible replacements , including Britain 's Got Talent star Amanda Holden and Our Girl 's Michelle Keegan , while I 'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here ! 's
Emily Atack also remains a fan - favourite choice after previously losing out on the job to Paddy McGuinness .
But Keith has also previously admitted that he did n't know what was in store for Celebrity Juice 's future right now , stressing that it 's important to get the next phase right .
" I 'm probably supposed to say it 's meant to come back , lead with positive words but we 've got to get it right .
The next phase has to be right , I guess , " he told Gaby Roslin recently .
Celebrity Juice airs on ITV2 .
Digital Spy now has a newsletter – sign up to get it sent straight to your inbox .
Looking for more TV recommendations and discussion ?
Head over to our Facebook Group to see new picks every day , and chat with other readers about what they 're watching right now .

World's oldest man Bob Weighton dies aged 112 .
2020-05-28 23:59:02 +00:00 .
The world ’s oldest man , Bob Weighton , has died from cancer at the age of 112 .
The former teacher and engineer took up the title of the oldest man in the world in February after the death of the previous holder Chitetsu Watanabe of Japan .
Confirming his death , his family said in a statement : “ With great sadness , the Weighton family announces the death of our beloved Bob Weighton .
“ He died peacefully in his sleep , from cancer , on the morning of Thursday 28 May 2020 at his flat in Alton , Hampshire , where he lived independently .
Aged 112 , Bob was the oldest man in the world .
“ Bob was an extraordinary man , and to the family not really because of the amazing age he reached .
“ A role model to us all , he lived his life interested in and engaged with all kinds of people from across the world .
“ He viewed everyone as his brother or sister and believed in loving and accepting and caring for one another .
“ He had many , many friendships and read and talked politics , theology , ecology and more right up until his death .
“ He also cared greatly for the environment .
The second bedroom in his flat was a workshop , filled with furniture , windmills and puzzles he made and sold in aid of charity , often from bits of wood pulled from skips .
“ We are so grateful that until the very end Bob remained our witty , kind , knowledgeable , conversationalist father , grandfather and great grandfather , and we will miss him greatly . ”
Mr Weighton ’s final birthday celebration on March 29 was held behind closed doors after the imposition of the Covid-19 lockdown , and he described how the “ world is in a bit of a mess ” with the crisis .
But despite his title of world ’s oldest man , Mr Weighton declined a birthday card from the Queen , saying he did not want one at the taxpayer ’s expense and he had received at least 10 from her already .
Mr Weighton was born in Kingston - Upon - Hull , Yorkshire , on March 29 , 1908 .
The father - of - three is survived by his children David and Dorothy , 10 grandchildren and 25 great - grandchildren .

Sen. Tim Kaine says he and his wife Anne Holton tested positive for coronavirus antibodies .
2020-05-28 15:36:24 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON — Sen. Tim Kaine , D - Va. , announced Thursday he and his wife Anne Holton tested positive for coronavirus antibodies after experiencing flu - like symptoms in March and April , meaning they could have contracted the novel coronavirus .
Kaine said he had tested positive for the flu earlier in the year and received treatment from his doctors , but at the end of March , Kaine said he experienced new symptoms he thought were flu remnants and a pollen reaction .
Holton , the interim president of George Mason University , then " experienced a short bout of fever and chills , followed by congestion and eventually a cough . "
Their doctors thought it was possible they had mild cases of coronavirus , so they stayed home and self - isolated at their home in Richmond , Virginia , until they were symptom - free in mid - April .
Neither was tested for coronavirus at the time because of a shortage of tests .
" Thx to stay - at - home guidance , we did n’t expose our vulnerable family , friends and colleagues , " Holton wrote on Twitter .
Kaine was back in the Senate at the beginning of May as it returned to work on nominations and pending legislation .
Sen. Tim Kaine , D - Va. , listens to testimony before the Senate Committee for Health , Education , Labor , and Pensions hearing , Tuesday , May 12 , 2020 on Capitol Hill in Washington .
More
More : House pulls FISA bill , will work with Senate on fixes after Trump says he would veto legislation
More : Coronavirus antibody tests are available around the country .
Here 's why they may provide a false sense of security .
Kaine and Holton tested positive for coronavirus antibodies this month , Kaine said .
" While those antibodies could make us less likely to be re - infected or infect others , there is still too much uncertainty over what protection antibodies may actually provide , " he said .
CDC guidelines on coronavirus antibody tests note that positive antibody test results do not necessarily indicate immunity from the virus .
False - positive results are also possible .
" Serologic test results do not indicate with certainty the presence or absence of current or previous infection with SARS - CoV-2 , " the CDC writes .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Tim Kaine wife say they tested positive for antibodies

Coronavirus: Number of people with COVID-19 hasn’t changed following ease of lockdown, new data shows .
2020-05-28 13:55:08 +00:00 .
An average of 0.24 % of people in the community had COVID-19 , or about 133,000 people in England , at any given time between 11 and 24 May , Office for National Statistics data shows .
This is similar to the amount found in its survey announced last week , which found 132,000 were infected at any time between 27 April and May 10 .
This indicates the number of people infected has been relatively stable despite lockdown having been eased slightly in England on 13 May.
The figures come from the ONS ’s infection survey , and the latest batch of findings was published on Thursday afternoon .
The findings relate only to England .
The data also shows that of those who provided blood samples , 6.78 % tested positive for antibodies to COVID-19 , about one in 15 people , although this sample of individuals was not weighted to represent the UK population .
It relied on test results from 885 people since the start of the study on ONS ’s infection study 26 April .
Less than a quarter of people surveyed who tested positive for COVID-19 said they had symptoms on the day they were tested , the figures show .
Just 21 % said they displayed indications of coronavirus infection at that point , while 30 % of those studied who tested positive for COVID-19 said they displayed symptoms at any point during the ONS ’s study period .
However , this was based off a sample of just 87 individuals people .
The ONS also estimated that 54,000 new COVID-19 infections happened every week in England , similar to previous estimates .
This equates to about 0.1 new cases per 100 people .
Its findings show that there is no evidence of differences in the percentage of men and women testing positive for COVID-19 .
However , there is “ some evidence that the 20 to 49 - year - olds in the community may have a slightly higher rate of positive testing than 50 to 69 - year - olds in the community ” , the ONS said .
A total of 1.73 % of doctors and nurses in the NHS and social care workers tested positive , while people not working in those types of roles tested at 0.38 % .
Workers whose jobs are outside the home have higher rates of positives tests and those who can work in their own houses , the figures show .
Of the respondents in the infection survey , just 2.62 % who experienced one or more of the symptoms of COVID-19 tested positive , compared to 0.35 % who had one or more symptoms at the time of being tested .

U.S. Durable Goods Orders Fall Sharply for Second Straight Month .
2020-05-28 13:03:53 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
U.S. orders for durable goods sank sharply for a second month in April as the coronavirus pandemic wrecked havoc on the manufacturing industry .
Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years decreased 17.2 % , the most since August 2014 , after a revised 16.6 % decline in March , Commerce Department data showed Thursday .
The median projection in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for a 19 % decrease .
Revised data on Thursday from the Commerce Department showed first - quarter gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 5 % pace as consumer spending and business investment dropped sharply .
Factories in the last two months bore the brunt of the sharp cutback in demand amid the nationwide lockdown .
While states have begun letting business reopen , manufacturing will be slow to recover as fewer people shop and businesses rein in capital spending projects .
Closely watched core capital goods orders , which exclude aircraft and military hardware , dropped 5.8 % in April after a 1.1 % decrease a month earlier .
Shipments of those goods , a proxy for equipment investment in the government ’s gross domestic product report , fell 5.4 % .
The Commerce Department ’s revised GDP data showed business fixed investment dropped at a 7.9 % annualized rate .
Equipment spending plummeted at a 16.7 % pace .
The report signals the end of the longest U.S. economic expansion and the start of what ’s likely to be the deepest recession in at least eight decades .
Corporate profits slumped an annualized 13.9 % in the first quarter , according to the GDP report , indicating companies may continue to pull back on capital spending projects until earnings improve .
The durable goods data showed broad declines in orders , including a 47.3 % plunge in bookings for transportation equipment such as motor vehicles .
Excluding transportation , durable goods orders fell 7.4 % , the most since January 2009 .
In a separate report released Thursday , initial jobless claims for regular state programs totaled 2.12 million in the week ended May 23 , while benefit rolls declined for the first time during the pandemic .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

India policeman's TikTok video helps family find missing father .
2020-05-28 10:36:04 +00:00 .
A TikTok video intended to encourage people to help the poor had an unintended result when it succeeded in reuniting a man with his family .
R Venkateshwarlu , who had been missing for two years , was seen in the video filmed under a flyover 2,000 km ( 1,242 miles ) away from his home in Telangana .
A friend alerted the family who then contacted police in the northern state of Punjab to help reunite them .
" I burst into tears when I first saw him , " his son told BBC Telugu .
How did he go missing ?
R Venkateshwarlu , who has hearing and speech difficulties , had lived all his life in a village in the southern state of Telangana .
He has a wife and five children and was employed as a labourer .
In April 2018 , he boarded a truck to go to another village for work .
" My father fell asleep and the truck driver did n't know he was there .
Several kilometres later , the driver realised my father was in the truck and so he dropped him off on the middle of the road and left him there , " his son , R Peddiraju , told the BBC .
The family were reunited after two years
More
Alone on an unfamiliar road , Mr Venkateshwarlu hoped to hitchhike home , and eventually found another truck willing to give him a ride .
But many hours later , he realised the vehicle was travelling in the opposite direction .
That driver dropped him off in Ludhiana , a large industrial city far away in the northern state of Punjab .
Mr Venkateshwarlu ended up living on food donations from locals .
His communication problems were compounded by the fact he does n't understand Punjabi .
His family , meanwhile , tried to find him with the help of local police in Telangana - but drew a blank .
How was he found ?
It was a lucky twist of fate .
Ever since India went into lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 , Punjab police constable Ajaib Singh had been going around Ludhiana to donate food and essential items to migrant workers and the poor .
His TikTok channel , which has more than 800,000 followers , features videos of charitable acts during the lockdown .
In one of his videos uploaded in March , Mr Singh is seen distributing food to people living under a flyover in Ludhiana .
In Telangana , a friend of Mr Peddiraju who watched the video thought he recognised Mr Venkateshwarlu in it and alerted his family .
They got in touch with the Ludhiana police who then tracked down Mr Venkateshwarlu and got him on the phone to his son .
R Venkateshwarlu ( second from right ) , seen here with police in Ludhiana
More
" We both burst into tears when we first saw each other .
He asked me to come and take him home , signalling in his own way , " his son said .
Police suggested he go and see his father once the lockdown was over .
" But we could n't wait that long to see him so we managed to get a permit that would allow me to travel across states , " Mr Peddiraju said .
Within a week , he was in Ludhiana with his father .
They got back to their village on Tuesday evening .
" This is the first time that our father stayed away from us for this long .
He lived only on rotis for the last two years , which he was not used to , " his son said .
"
The first thing we 'll do now is feed him homemade hot rice . "

Sturgeon to reveal if Scotland will ease lockdown restrictions .
2020-05-28 08:31:31 +00:00 .
Nicola Sturgeon is expected to announce “ cautious ” steps out of lockdown for Scotland .
The First Minister will reveal on Thursday if the country is moving on to the first phase of a four - part plan for easing the restrictions – which were put in place more than nine weeks ago on March 23 .
People could be permitted to meet up with friends or relatives from other households – one household at a time – and take part in some non - contact sports such as golf , angling and outdoor swimming .
Garden centres , drive - through restaurants and recycling centres could also get the green light to reopen .
Golf courses could be permitted to reopen in the first phase of lockdown restrictions being eased ( Andrew Milligan / PA )
More
The changes could come into effect from Friday but Ms Sturgeon has already warned not all the measures in phase one of her plan will necessarily be introduced immediately .
It comes after the number of people dying with Covid-19 fell for the fourth week in a row , with National Records of Scotland revealing there were 230 deaths linked to the virus registered between May 18 and 24 .
Ms Sturgeon said : “ These trends , which have now been sustained for over four weeks , do definitely give us grounds for encouragement . ”
At the same time , Scotland ’s new Test and Protect system also comes into force across the country .
The contact tracing system will “ operate at a scale not seen before in Scotland ” Ms Sturgeon said , as part of efforts to continue to suppress the spread of the virus .
Under the new system , Scots will be expected to be tested for Covid-19 if they show symptoms of the disease – and if they test positive they will be asked to supply details of anyone they could have passed it on to .
Those people will then be contacted by the team of tracers and asked to self - isolate for 14 days .
Speaking on Tuesday , the First Minister said introducing the system at the “ same time as we take the first very cautious steps out of lockdown gives us the opportunity to address any operational issues ahead of a potentially more substantial easing of restrictions ” .
So far , the only relaxation of restrictions in Scotland has been to allow people to exercise outside more than once a day .

A Eurowings plane with just 2 passengers on board was forced to turn around after learning its destination airport was closed due to coronavirus .
2020-05-27 22:25:37 +00:00 .
A Eurowings flight from Düsseldorf , Germany , to Sardinia , Italy , was forced to turn around at the last minute because the destination airport was closed due to coronavirus lockdowns in Italy .
The plane made it all the way to Sardinian airspace on Saturday when they were told that the airport was closed to commercial traffic .
The flight was two hours one way .
An aviation blog theorized that the mistake was made because the airport was ordered to reopen earlier this month , but that decision was immediately overruled by the local government .
There were only two people on the flight .
The airline has rebooked their flights .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
eurowings plane return
More
A map showing Eurowings Flight 9844 flying from Düsseldorf , Germany , to Sardinia , Italy , then returning immediately after Sardinian airport was closed .
FlightRadar24 / Business Insider
A flight from Düsseldorf , Germany , to the Italian island of Sardinia was forced to turn around on Saturday after a two - hour flight because the destination airport was still closed due to coronavirus lockdown measures .
Eurowings Flight 9844 made it all the way to Sardinian airspace before it was told by air traffic control that the airport was closed to commercial traffic , CNN reported .
The plane had been carrying just two passengers at the time , CNN added .
The flight then made the two - hour return trip to Germany , and the airline has rebooked all two passengers onto other flights .
Both Italy and Germany have started lifting their strict coronavirus lockdowns .
Aviation blog One Mile at a Time theorized that the mistake was made because Sardinia 's Olbia Airport was ordered to reopen on May 17 , but then the local government immediately overruled the decision .
The airport is to remain closed to commercial flights until June 2 at the earliest .
A Eurowings spokesperson told CNN in a statement that " the situation at numerous airports in Europe is very dynamic " due to the coronavirus outbreak .
" The large amount of information provided on operating hours or airport closures are often changed at short notice , " the spokesperson said , adding that there are " daily changes in entry regulations in the various countries . "
Air travel has fallen dramatically during the pandemic , and airlines are now scrambling to implement new policies to stop viral transmissions and to make crew and passengers feel safe .
Many tourist - reliant regions are now starting to reopen as more countries lift their lockdown measures .
Read the original article on Business Insider

It is reckless to reopen schools before it is safe .
2020-05-27 21:14:02 +00:00 .
The government ’s decision to push ahead with reopening schools on 1 June is reckless and dangerous .
Britain still has the highest death toll in Europe .
The National Education Union , whose members are being asked to work in schools , has rightly raised the question of five tests before schools reopen .
These should be met before any return to schools – and other workplaces – is considered .
Some local councils have said that schools will not be ready to open on 1 June ( PM accepts some English primary schools may not return on 1 June , 24 May ) .
Others should follow suit and say schools wo n’t open until the five tests are met .
Parents have rightly organised meetings up and down the country against the reopening of schools .
Most workers would have to use public transport to return to work , and it is clear this can not be operated safely on a mass scale at present .
As of 25 May , 43 transport workers have died from coronavirus in London alone .
There are already far too many workers engaged in non - essential production , such as on most building sites , who should not be working .
We reject the government ’s attempts to use economic hardship – for example , the winding down of the furlough scheme – to force people into unsafe work .
We have seen nothing that suggests that the government will ensure safe working .
We therefore call on the trade union movement to support school staff and other workers who are concerned about a return to unsafe schools and other workplaces on 1 June or beyond .
No one should be forced to return to an unsafe workplace – and we support them if they refuse to do so .
Jeremy Corbyn MP for Islington North , Nadia Whittome MP for Nottingham East , Sarah Woolley General secretary , Bakers Food and Allied Workers , Jane Loftus vice - president , Communication Workers Union , Karen Reissmann People Before Profit :
Health Worker Covid Activists group and NHS nurse •
I am a headteacher who wants all 360 pupils back in my school because I know they thrive here .
I know school will not look the same and that makes me sad , but it has to be different
and we will make it work .
Some pupils will have slipped behind academically , some will have been exposed to things that have done them harm and some will be struggling socially and emotionally – we will deal with this just like we did before .
Many children have thrived on time spent with their families ; our job is to build on this and not lose the skills they have gained .
I am proud of our pupils who have coped amazingly , of staff who have worked tirelessly and of our parents who have been kind , generous and supportive .
The school community will bounce back because of the people in it .
I would like some clarity , honesty and common sense .
Parents and staff need to be reassured about risks ; the messages have been frightening and people have responded .
You ca n’t just change that and expect people to follow because you say so .
Do n’t send me guidance that suggests I buy soap or use my science lab to teach in – I have done the former and I have n’t got the latter !
Stop using education as a political football .
We are n’t heroes or villains – we understand the balance between the economy and education .
Remember , I make decisions , meet need and pull together thinking every single day .
It is what education is for .
Trust me .
Elisabeth Broers Robin Hood junior school , Sutton , London • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com • Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters

Forget Visa, Mastercard Is a Better Growth Stock .
2020-05-27 17:25:18 +00:00 .
Brown Advisory recently released its Q1 2020 Investor Letter , a copy of which you can download below .
The Large - Cap Growth Fund posted a return of -13.05 % for the quarter , outperforming its benchmark , the Russell 1000 Growth Index which returned -14.10 % in the same quarter .
You should check out Brown Advisory ’s top 5 stock picks for investors to buy right now , which could be the biggest winners of the stock market crash .
There were n’t a lot of funds who could deliver these kinds of returns without shorting the market or using aggressive put options .
In the said letter , Brown Advisory spoke about Mastercard Inc ( NYSE : MA ) and Visa Inc. ( NYSE : V ) stocks .
Mastercard and Visa both provide financial services .
Year - to - date , Mastercard Inc ( NYSE : MA ) stock lost 0.3 % and on May 26th it had a closing price of $ 303.33 .
Meanwhile , Visa Inc. ( NYSE : V ) stock gained 1.9 % year - to - date and on May 26th it had a closing price of $ 193.22 .
Here is what Brown Advisory said : " Lastly , we swapped our position in Visa to Mastercard .
The two business models are very similar ; however , we view Mastercard as a marginally better model going forward .
It is growing faster and has executed better internationally , which we believe will be an important driver of growth in the future . "
Visa Inc ( NYSE : V ) , Visa Electron , Card , MasterCard , Cards , Credit , bank
More
Our calculations showed that Visa Inc. ( NYSE : V ) is ranked # 6 and Mastercard Inc ( NYSE : MA ) is ranked # 8 among the 30 most popular stocks among hedge funds .
The top 10 stocks among hedge funds returned 185 % since the end of 2014 and outperformed the SP 500 Index ETFs by more than 109 percentage points .
We know it sounds unbelievable .
You have been dismissing our articles about top hedge fund stocks mostly because you were fed biased information by other media outlets about hedge funds ' poor performance .
You could have doubled the size of your nest egg by investing in the top hedge fund stocks instead of dumb SP 500 ETFs .
Below you can watch our video about the top 5 hedge fund stocks right now .
All of these stocks had positive returns in 2020 .
Video : Top 5 Stocks Among Hedge Funds
At Insider Monkey we leave no stone unturned when looking for the next great investment idea .
For example , we are still not out of the woods in terms of the coronavirus pandemic .
So , we checked out this analyst ’s “ corona catalyst plays “ .
We interview hedge fund managers and ask them about best ideas .
You can watch our latest hedge fund manager interview here and find out the name of the large - cap healthcare stock that Sio Capital 's Michael Castor expects to double .
We read hedge fund investor letters and listen to stock pitches at hedge fund conferences .
Our best call in 2020 was shorting the market when SP 500 was trading at 3150 after realizing the coronavirus pandemic ’s significance before most investors .
You can subscribe to our free enewsletter below to receive our stories in your inbox :
[ daily - newsletter][/daily - newsletter ]
Disclosure : None .
This article is originally published at Insider Monkey .

Tuesday Morning Files for Bankruptcy, Adding to Retail Toll .
2020-05-27 14:59:19 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Tuesday Morning Corp. filed for bankruptcy , adding the discount home - goods chain to the list of retailers felled by pandemic shutdowns .
The company plans to close about one - third of its 687 stores and reduce its liabilities during the restructuring , according to a company statement sent to Bloomberg .
The retailer filed the Chapter 11 case in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Dallas .
It ’s aiming to emerge in early fall with a reduced store count of around 450 .
Retailers , many already struggling with competition from online shopping , have been among the hardest hit by Covid-19 .
Lockdowns drained revenue , helping to tip companies including J.C. Penney Co. , J. Crew Group Inc. and Neiman Marcus Group Inc. into bankruptcy court .
To remain in business during the court proceedings , Tuesday Morning lined up an initial $ 100 million in the form of a so - called debtor - in - possession loan from existing lenders , it said in the statement .
The agreement requires the retailer to obtain a commitment for an additional $ 25 million , which is still under negotiation , the company said .
Tuesday Morning had to temporarily shut its stores in response to the pandemic , triggering a default on its loan agreements , according to a regulatory filing .
Its lenders , which include JPMorgan Chase Co. , Bank of America Corp. and Wells Fargo Co. , agreed on May 14 to postpone taking action until May 26 .
Founded in 1974 , Tuesday Morning is a national off - price retailer that specializes in home goods , textiles , furnishings and related products .
It employed about 9,600 people at the end of its 2019 fiscal year , and had almost 700 stores in 39 states , according to a filing in March .
Plans call for store closures in two phases .
Tuesday Morning will ask for court permission to close at least 132 under - performing locations in the first phase in addition to its distribution center in Phoenix .
As it seeks to renegotiate rent with landlords on remaining stores , it plans to identify another 100 outlets to shutter , the company said .
Bloomberg reported on May 6 that the Dallas - based company was considering a Chapter 11 filing .
The chain was especially vulnerable because it has no online channel ; all of its sales come at its stores .
Tuesday Morning drew $ 55 million from its revolving credit facility earlier this year to help it ride out the pandemic .
Even before the closures , Tuesday Morning was experiencing strains .
Sales at outlets open for at least a year fell 3 % during the quarter ended Dec. 31 , filings show , with cash and equivalents dwindling to just $ 4.9 million .
The company started reopening stores last month and saw a bump in sales .
Since the reopenings began April 24 , comparable store sales for those back in business were around 10 % higher than the same period a year earlier , the company said in the statement .
More than 80 % of the chain ’s stores are operating on limited hours under local and state guidelines .
Roughly 7,300 employees have returned to work after previously being furloughed , Tuesday Morning said .
Haynes Boone LLP is working as the company ’s legal adviser , Miller Buckfire is acting as financial adviser and AlixPartners LLP is its restructuring adviser .
The case is Tuesday Morning Corporation , 20 - 31476 , U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas ( Dallas )
( Adds bankruptcy case number in final paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

English retailers told to halt coronavirus home antibody test deliveries .
2020-05-27 10:01:29 +00:00 .
Retailers in England selling home antibody tests , including Superdrug and Babylon , have been told to stop sending them out , and labs must not process them , while the regulatory body examines how well they work .
Although the kits are made by the healthcare technology firm Abbot and have been approved by Public Health England ( PHE ) for the NHS to use for frontline health and care workers , people who buy them privately must prick their own finger and draw blood to post off to the lab .
The authorities appear to be questioning whether a home blood sample leads to a result that is as accurate as one taken by a nurse in a clinic .
On 18 May , Matt Hancock announced coronavirus testing is being extended in the UK to anyone over the age of five with symptoms .
Before then , eligibility had been limited to a series of groups including key workers , those aged over 65 , people who could not work from home , or people who lived with someone from one of these groups .
Those with symptoms can now use the gov.uk website to book home test kits or appointments at drive - through centres across the country .
The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Authority has contacted all the private providers and the labs they use to tell them to halt the tests while they assess their accuracy .
Babylon said it can process tests that are in the system , but can not send people their results until given the green light .
PHE has approved two finger - prick antibody tests , by Abbott and also by Roche .
The Department of Health and Social Care has bought 10 m for the NHS .
A third test , from the Cardiff - based diagnostics company Ortho , has been approved in Wales .
Adding to the confusion , Prof John Newton , from PHE , who is in charge of speeding up testing , cast doubt on the accuracy of home tests at the science and technology select committee of MPs last week and indicated the government could be intending to approve a test for home use .
“ The public need to be aware that those tests are not the same as those we have evaluated and approved for use .
The laboratory - based tests have a much higher standard of accuracy , ” he said .
“ We would n’t recommend at the moment that people rely on the tests that are becoming widely available .
My advice would be to wait until we have better tests which will be available in a similar form very soon , though they are still under evaluation at the moment . ”

Coronavirus: 'Short-lived' rebound in house hunter demand .
2020-05-27 08:14:36 +00:00 .
Demand from property hunters rebounded as curbs on the sector were lifted in England - but the trend may be short - lived , analysis suggests .
Buyer demand rose by 88 % in the week estate agents were told they could resume viewings and people could move again , property portal Zoopla said .
However , actual sales remained sluggish , and the analysis suggests demand could fall again .
A tough outlook for jobs could affect people 's ability to move home .
For those who do still have the money to move , Zoopla echoed others in suggesting residents may have spent lockdown rethinking what they want from their home .
Another property portal , Rightmove , reported a return to pre - crisis levels of browsing and enquiries from people looking to buy a home at the point restrictions were lifted in England on 13 May.
Now , Zoopla 's UK Cities House Price Index has said that the rebound in demand went beyond the level seen at the start of March .
Portsmouth , Southampton , Oxford , Liverpool and Manchester all saw demand rise .
Different markets
This trend was far more muted where the restrictions remained - in Scotland , Wales , and Northern Ireland - and also in London , where the market had already been relatively slow .
The analysis found the rebound would be temporary , after people who had been stuck at home and thinking of moving met with the realities of less settled job prospects .
" Many households are likely to have re - evaluated what they want from their home .
This could well explain the scale of the demand returning to the market , " said Richard Donnell , director of research at Zoopla .
He said economic uncertainty was building and that would eventually lead to greater caution among buyers and sellers .
A small survey , as part of the research , found that 41 % of those asked had put moving plans on hold owing to the uncertainty , loss of income , or future prospects for their finances .
Lockdown had meant thousands of people put house sales on hold .
Residential property sales in the UK in April hit their lowest monthly level since comparable records began in 2005 , with 38,060 transactions during the month , according to provisional numbers from HM Revenue and Customs ( HMRC ) .
This was less than half the level seen in the same month the previous year .
Great uncertainty remains over the level of recovery in sales , as well as prices .
Rental rebound
Meanwhile , Rightmove said that , in the week after restrictions in England were lifted , interest from those looking to move in the private rental sector had increased ahead of the level seen at the same time last year .
Monday 18
May saw its highest level of rental demand in a single day .
The biggest increases in rental searches compared with a year ago were in Rotherham , Cambridge and St Helens , it said .
" A week 's worth of data should only be taken as an early indication of activity , but it 's certainly encouraging , " said Miles Shipside , from Rightmove .

Record drop in energy investment, warns IEA think-tank .
2020-05-27 04:15:21 +00:00 .
The coronavirus crisis is causing the biggest fall in global energy investment in history .
Before the pandemic , funding was set to rise 2 % , but now it ’s predicted to plunge 20 % , says the International Energy Agency ( IEA ) .
Fossil fuels are hit hardest , with a 30 % funding drop expected for oil and a 15 % fall for coal .
Renewables investment is down 10 % - and it 's only about half what ’s needed to combat climate change .
Due to coronavirus lockdown measures imposed by many countries , for the time being , the fall in investment is leading to a drop in planet - heating carbon emissions .
But the IEA warns that that use of fossil fuels is likely to rebound when the crisis is over , leading to a spike in CO2 .
One reason is because China and other Asian nations are putting in orders now for a new generation of coal - fired power plants to supply energy in the future .
“ We see a historical decline in emissions , but unless we have the right economic recovery packages , we might see emissions again skyrocket and the decline of this year would be completely wasted , " the IEA 's executive director Fatih Birol told the BBC .
“ Remember the 2008 - 2009 crashes .
We immediately saw a decline in emissions , but afterwards it rebounded .
We must learn from history . ”
Approvals of new coal plants in the first quarter of 2020 , mainly in China , were running at twice the rate observed over the whole of 2019 , he added .
Overall energy investment has fallen almost $ 400bn ( £ 324.3bn ) short of what was expected in 2020 , and the IEA says there are now serious doubts about secure energy supplies when the global economy picks up , because energy projects take so long to deliver .
The report says the decline in investment is “ staggering ” in its scale and swiftness , mostly due to low demand and low prices for energy , especially oil .
Dr Birol said : “ The historic plunge in investment is deeply troubling .
It means lost jobs and economic opportunities today , as well as lost energy supply that we might well need tomorrow , once the economy recovers .
“ The slowdown in spending also risks undermining the much - needed transition to more sustainable energy systems . ”
Investment in renewable energy falling
The report says a combination of falling demand , lower prices and a rise in non - payment of bills means energy revenues to governments and industry are set to fall by well over a trillion dollars in 2020 .
Oil accounts for most of the total of this decline .
Shale gas – previously the darling of the energy sector - is anticipated to take the biggest percentage hit overall , with a 50 % investment fall .
Renewables investment has been more resilient , but spending on rooftop solar installations by has been strongly affected .
Energy efficiency is suffering too , as investment is set to fall by an estimated 10 - 15 % .
The overall share of global energy spending that goes to clean energy has been stuck at around one - third in recent years .
In 2020 it will jump towards 40 % of total investment - but that ’s only relative , because fossil fuels are taking such a battering .
Dr Birol added : “ The crisis has brought lower emissions but for all the wrong reasons .
If we are to achieve a lasting reduction in global emissions , then we will need to see a rapid increase in clean energy investment . ”
Decisions to commission new coal - fired plants are down more than 80 % since 2015 , but the global coal fleet continues to grow .
Follow Roger on Twitter .

Justice Department drops insider trading investigations of three senators .
2020-05-27 02:03:04 +00:00 .
The Justice Department has closed insider trading investigations into three senators who sold off stocks following early briefings on the coronavirus , aides told NBC News .
A spokesman for Sen. Kelly Loeffler , R - Ga. , confirmed that she had been informed that the Justice Department had dropped an inquiry into her trades and called the allegations " politically motivated . "
" Today 's clear exoneration by the Department of Justice affirms what Senator Loeffler has said all along — she did nothing wrong .
This was a politically - motivated attack shamelessly promoted by the fake news media and her political opponents .
Senator Loeffler will continue to focus her full attention on delivering results for Georgians , " said the spokesman , Stephen Lawson .
A Democratic aide said Sen. Dianne Feinstein , D - Calif. , was informed that the Justice Department was dropping an inquiry over stock trades her husband made in the wake of her briefings .
A similar investigation into Sen. James Inhofe , R - Okla. , is also being dropped , according to a spokesman — but another one , involving Sen. Richard Burr , R - N.C. , is continuing .
The development was first reported by The Wall Street Journal .
Burr 's office did not respond to a request for comment .
A spokesperson for the Justice Department declined to comment on the Journal report .
Inhofe told The Oklahoman newspaper of Oklahoma City : " As I 've said all along , I was n't even at the briefing and do not make my own stock trades .
I did nothing wrong , and I 'm pleased the Justice Department has exonerated me . "
Burr temporarily stepped aside as chairman of the Intelligence Committee this month after the FBI seized his cellphone as part of its investigation into his trades .
Unlike the other senators , Burr has acknowledged directing his trades himself .
He maintained that he did n't use inside information , and he said in March that he " relied solely on public news reports to guide my decision regarding the sale of stocks on February 13 . "
Loeffler said after the trades were disclosed that she 'd been unaware of the transactions when they were made .
" I had no involvement in these decisions .
I do n't have conversations with them about any of this , and so this is a very third - party relationship that many people are familiar with , " she told CNBC in March .
A spokesman for Feinstein told NBC News at the time her husband 's trades were disclosed that she " did not sell any stock . "
" All of Senator Feinstein 's assets are in a blind trust , as they have been since she came to the Senate , " the spokesman said .
" She has no involvement in any of her husband 's financial decisions . "
Inhofe said at the time that " I do not have any involvement in my investment decisions . "
" In December 2018 , shortly after becoming chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee , I instructed my financial advisor to move me out of all stocks and into mutual funds to avoid any appearance of controversy .
My advisor has been doing so faithfully since that time and I am not aware of or consulted about any transactions , " Inhofe said in a statement .

UK coronavirus death toll passes 47,000 amid mounting criticism of move to hold sports events at start of epidemic .
2020-05-26 23:38:40 +00:00 .
The number of coronavirus deaths passed 47,000 in the UK as ministers faced growing accusations today that people may have died because of the decision to hold this year ’s Cheltenham Festival and a Liverpool Champions League game .
As the epidemic took off in the UK in March , major sporting events were still being allowed by the Government despite being cancelled in other countries .
This now appears to be among a series of blunders which has led to the UK having one of the worst death tolls so far in Europe .
Ministers are also being warned against further relaxing the lockdown on June 1 if a full “ test , trace and isolate ” system is not in place .
The Office for National Statistics announced today that 42,173 deaths involving Covid-19 occurred in England and Wales up to May 15 .
Official figures last week showed 3,546 deaths involving Covid-19 were registered in Scotland up to May 17 , while for Northern Ireland the number was 664 deaths up to May 20 .
Together these figures mean that so far 46,383 deaths have been registered in the UK where Covid-19 was mentioned on the death certificate , including suspected cases .
A further 964 hospital patients in England who had tested positive for Covid-19 died between May 16 and May 24 , according to figures published by NHS England .
The real death toll from coronavirus is believed to be even higher with the number of “ excess deaths ” during the epidemic now 53,960 when compared with the five - year fatality average .
Ministers have been accused of being too slow in ordering the lockdown which may have cost thousands of lives , though they have insisted the right decisions were taken at the right time .
New research now appears to possibly link spikes in cases to both the Cheltenham Festival and the Liverpool v Atletico Madrid game in early March .
Professor Tim Spector , whose team at King ’s College London have followed more 1.5 million people self - reporting on Covid-19 symptoms , said rates of cases locally “ increased several - fold ” , adding , “ so much so that both areas became key hotspots in the UK ” .
Figures come from the Covid-19 Symptom Study show an estimated five to six per cent of the population , aged 20 to 69 , having symptoms in those two regions towards the end of March , according to the BBC .
Professor Spector said : “ Sporting events should have been shut down at least a week earlier because they ’ll have caused increased suffering and death that would n’t otherwise have occurred . ”
In a statement , the Government said : “ There are many factors that could influence the number of cases in a particular area , including population density , age , general health , and the position of an area on the pandemic curve . ”
The ONS figures also showed more than 11,000 people with coronavirus have died in care homes , with 3,400 more of their residents with Covid-19 passing away in hospitals .
Separate NHS figures showed today that fewer than 100 people have died with coronavirus in London hospitals in the last week .
The weekly death toll is the lowest since before lockdown was imposed on March 23 .
Five deaths were announced on Saturday and four yesterday , taking the total for the week to 90 .
However there were problems in data collection from hospitals for a period on Sunday and weekend figures often fail to report all recent deaths .
Story continues

David Bowie, Adele and Beyoncé: BBC unveil Glastonbury coverage .
2020-05-26 22:14:42 +00:00 .
The final weekend of June should have seen 200,000 revellers descend on Somerset for the 50th anniversary of the Glastonbury festival .
With the event cancelled owing to the coronavirus pandemic , the BBC has announced extensive broadcast plans celebrating the British music institution from 25 - 29 June .
David Bowie ’s headline set , from the year 2000 , will be shown in full for the first time ever as part of the coverage across BBC Two , BBC Four and iPlayer .
The coverage will also feature full headline performances from Jay - Z , Beyoncé , Adele and Coldplay .
Glastonbury organiser Emily Eavis said : “ I ’m looking forward to a weekend of reflecting on the history of our festival and going back to some classic performances from David Bowie , Adele , REM , Beyoncé , the Rolling Stones , Jay - Z , Billie Eilish and lots more .
Me and my dad will definitely be watching . ”
Eavis will join Lauren Laverne on the BBC Radio 6 Music morning show on 26 June .
Across three nights on BBC Two from 26 - 29 June , the BBC will celebrate memorable performances from the broadcaster ’s 23 - year partnership with the festival , including sets by Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds , REM , PJ Harvey , Baaba Maal , Amy Winehouse , Blur , Lady Gaga , Dizzee Rascal , Toots and the Maytals , Arctic Monkeys and the Rolling Stones .
On the afternoon of Sunday 28 June , just as Diana Ross was due to perform at the festival ’s fabled legends slot , BBC Two will dedicate a programme to the venerable artists who have soothed the Sunday teatime crowd .
Kylie Minogue performs in the ‘ legends ’ slot on the Pyramid stage , 30 June 2019 .
Photograph : Samir Hussein / WireImage
More
Acoustic performances will form the basis of the programming on BBC Four , featuring the likes of Ed Sheeran , Dua Lipa , Kano , Leon Bridges , Patti Smith , Richie Havens and Youssou N’Dour .
Sixty full festival sets will be available on - demand on iPlayer , including shows by Florence and the Machine , Christine and the Queens , Lana Del Rey , Billie Eilish , Foals , the xx , The Killers , Lewis Capaldi and Radiohead ’s historic 1997 headline set , which the group famously described as “ a form of hell ” thanks to technical difficulties .
A specially commissioned film , The Best of BBC Music Introducing at Glastonbury , will chronicle the major stars who played the festival ’s new music stage earlier in their careers , including Sheeran , George Ezra , Nao and Celeste .
Julien Temple ’s film Glastonbury , celebrating the history of the festival , will be shown on 25 June on BBC Four .
Related : Glastonbury ponchos are repurposed as anti - coronavirus PPE
Young viewers can earn a Blue Peter music badge by performing , dancing or creating DIY festivals as part of the historic children ’s show programming on 25 - 26 June .
National and local BBC radio programming will feature extensive coverage of the festival ’s history .
BBC Radio 1 Xtra will reflect on historic sets by Jay - Z , Stormzy and Dave .
BBC Radio Somerset presenter Andy Bennett will broadcast across eight south - westerly radio stations , talking to acts who would have performed this year , regular festival goers , Pilton villagers and the festival ’s production team .
Lorna Clarke , the BBC ’s pop controller , said : “ Glastonbury festival has for decades been a huge moment in the BBC ’s music calendar , thanks to Michael and Emily ’s magical creation .
Even though Worthy Farm ca n’t be full of thousands of music lovers this year , the BBC will celebrate with four days of memories and archive footage to give our audience a taste of the festival in their own homes . ”
Taylor Swift , Paul McCartney and Kendrick Lamar were due to headline the 2020 festival .
The organisers have not yet announced plans for next year .

DOJ ends coronavirus insider trading investigations into 3 senators but continues probing Richard Burr .
2020-05-26 21:29:30 +00:00 .
The Justice Department has notified lawyers for Senators Kelly Loeffler of Georgia , Dianne Feinstein of California and Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma that it will not charge the lawmakers with insider trading for stock sales they or their family members made shortly after some had attended non - public intelligence briefings about the coronavirus crisis earlier this year .
The DOJ appears to still be probing transactions executed in February by Senator Richard Burr , who stepped down as Intelligence chairman last week after it was reported in March he sold off up to $ 1.7 m in individual stocks after he had begun receiving classified briefings about Covid-19 but weeks before global markets plummeted due to uncertainty about the disease .
A source close to Ms Feinstein confirmed other outlets ' earlier reports that the DOJ was closing its investigation into her and her husband 's investment portfolios .
Spokespersons for Ms Loeffler and Mr Inhofe could not immediately be reached for comment for this story .
Mr Burr 's office declined to comment .
The North Carolina Republican was the only one of the four lawmakers under investigation for their stock sales to acknowledge personally executing the transactions in question .
He turned over his cell phone to investigators earlier this month .
Mr Burr told reporters on Thursday that the ongoing probe into his stock sales had become " a distraction " to the intelligence panel 's work .
The committee oversees the US intelligence apparatus — including the office of the director of national intelligence , the CIA , and the National Security Agency , among other agencies — and has spent the bulk of Donald Trump 's first term probing Russian interference in the 2016 election and the Obama administration 's counterintelligence efforts against such interference .
Republican Senator Marco Rubio of Florida was named chairman on an interim basis .
Mr Burr attended a closed - doors , open - to - all - senators briefing for the Senate Health Committee on 24 January where infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci and Centers for Disease Control Director Robert Redfield apprised lawmakers of the latest government reports from the coronavirus outbreak in China ’s Wuhan province .
As chairman of the intel panel , Mr Burr also had access to non - public reports about the coronavirus during that time , though it is unclear whether the US intelligence agencies that compiled those reports were providing information that could n’t be cobbled together from public reporting .
On 13 February , three weeks after the initial 24 January briefing , Mr Burr sold off 33 stocks worth between $ 628,033 and $ 1.72 m — his largest sell - off of assets in at least 14 months .
That sell - off included $ 250,000 worth of stocks in hotel companies that have seen their value plummet to more than half their value at points during the economic shutdown .
More follows …

Trump on Twitter mocks Biden for wearing a face mask .
2020-05-26 18:47:43 +00:00 .
The CDC recommends it , but the president mocks it .
President Trump on Monday shared a tweet making fun of Joe Biden for wearing a mask in public — a step to help reduce the spread of the coronavirus that the president has not followed .
Mr. Trump shared a tweet from Fox News political analyst Brit Hume showing a picture of Biden , the presumptive Democratic nominee , wearing sunglasses and a black mask that covered much of his face at a Memorial Day ceremony .
" This might help explain why Trump does n't like to wear a mask in public , " Hume wrote .
This might help explain why Trump does n’t like to wear a mask in public .
Biden today .
pic.twitter.com/9l1gw1ljBE — Brit Hume ( @brithume )
May 25 , 2020
Biden wore the mask as he and his wife Jill laid a wreath at the Delaware Memorial Bridge in Wilmington .
He kept it on as he told reporters his message to the country on Memorial Day : " Never forget the sacrifices that these men and women made .
Never , ever , forget . "
.@JoeBiden : “ Never forget the sacrifices that these men and women made .
Never , ever , ever forget . ”
pic.twitter.com/Qavs5EVCfx — Andrew Bates ( @AndrewBatesNC )
May 25 , 2020
It was Biden 's first public appearance in two months , as he has been campaigning virtually from his home in Wilmington during the pandemic .
Biden 's wife and members of his staff were also seen wearing masks .
Mr. Trump , meanwhile , has not worn a mask during White House events and public appearances , including his own Memorial Day wreath laying at Arlington National Cemetery .
He put one on during part of his trip last week to a Ford plan in Michigan , which requires all visitors to wear personal protective equipment , but he did n't wear it during a roundtable discussion and his appearances before the media .
The president said he " did n't want to give the press the pleasure of seeing it . "
Nonetheless , a photo of Mr. Trump in a mask emerged from the visit .
Photo surfaces of Trump wearing mask at Ford plant https://t.co/MT8QoT7n37 pic.twitter.com/QjKIGnUc2L
—
The Hill ( @thehill ) May 22 , 2020
Mr. Trump 's refusal contradicts the CDC 's recommendation that all Americans wear masks in public to help stop the spread of COVID-19 .
Many governors nationwide have suggested or mandated that all citizens wear masks in public when they can not social distance .
Even in the White House , West Wing staffers were directed to wear masks when they are n't at their desks .
Biden 's campaign hit back at Mr. Trump for his taunt .
" Presidents lead by example , and wearing a mask helps protect others , " Biden spokesman TJ Ducklo said in a statement to the Washington Post . "
Donald Trump should try it , because his failure to act early on producing [ personal protective equipment ] , on ramping up testing , and implementing a coherent national response to this crisis has cost thousands of Americans their lives . "
Black man dies after Minneapolis police officer pins him to the ground by his neck
Colorado tourist attractions remain closed despite reopening plans
Chris Cassidy : SpaceX launch is " a gigantic deal , " " very confident " crew will arrive safely

Ryanair to add back Europe flights, launches fare sale as Spain, Italy, Greece, others reopen to tourists .
2020-05-26 17:47:20 +00:00 .
Ryanair , which touts itself as Europe 's largest low - fare airline , is adding back flights as countries in Europe begin to reopen to tourism amid the coronavirus pandemic .
Ryanair will operate 40 % of its normal flight schedule in July and serve 90 % of its pre - COVID-19 routes , the company announced Tuesday .
As travel restrictions are easing , the airline has decided to " celebrate " with a seat sale for July and August travel with one - way fares beginning at $ 32.93 ( € 29.99 ) , which must be booked by Thursday .
The airline 's announcement comes after Spain announced over the weekend that it would open its borders in July , following moves from other European countries .
Earlier this month , the company shared it was operating on a " skeleton daily schedule " made up of 30 flights between Ireland , the United Kingdom and Europe .
" We look forward to welcoming millions of Ryanair passengers and their families back on board , and flying them on holiday as Europe ’s economies begin to recover from these difficult recent lockdowns , which have been so successful in reversing the spread of the COVID-19 virus , " Eddie Wilson , Ryanair CEO , said in a statement .
Ryanair will offer daily flights from destinations such as Ireland , the U.K. the , Netherlands , Germany and Belgium , and will fly to " key holiday airports " in Spain , Italy , Greece , Cyprus and Portugal starting July 1 .
But flying on Ryanair will look a bit different , as will flying on other airlines as they attempt to quell the spread of coronavirus on flights .
" All Ryanair flights will operate with new health guidelines in place , which will require all passengers ( and Ryanair crews ) to wear face masks at all times in the airport terminals and on board our aircraft , in compliance with EU guidelines , " Wilson said .
Spain 's Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez announced Saturday that the country would be open to international tourism sometime in July , though he did not specify a date , Madrid - based newspaper El Pais and Reuters reported .
And Italy , which is one of the European countries hit hardest by the coronavirus and was one of the first to lock down , will relax its border restrictions June 3 .
At that time , Italians can travel between regions or to other European Union countries and the United Kingdom , and citizens of those countries can travel to Italy .
Greece ’s long - awaited tourist season will begin June 15 with the opening of seasonal hotels and the arrival of the first foreign visitors , while international flights will begin heading directly for holiday destinations gradually as of July 1 .
At first , flights will be available only to Athens and visitors will be subject to sample - based virus testing .
And Cyprus will begin the first phase of loosening travel restrictions on June 9 , including opening up air travel from some European countries , according to a statement from Yiannis Karousos , minister of transport .
Tourists are already welcome in Portugal , according to Reuters , though flights outside the EU are still suspended until June 15 with some exceptions to Portuguese - speaking nations , including Brazil .
And their border with Spain will remain closed until then , too .
Airbnb guests crave faraway trips : Where are you dreaming of going post - coronavirus ?
Coronavirus - free Montenegro : To open borders June 1 to tourists – but there 's a catch
Contributing : Jayme Deerwester , Rasha Ali , Curtis Tate , USA TODAY , The Associated Press
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Ryanair Europe flights added as Spain , Italy , Greece open to tourism

Coronavirus: China's plan to test everyone in Wuhan .
2020-05-26 15:06:21 +00:00 .
China has been carrying out an ambitious plan to test everyone in Wuhan , the city where the Covid-19 pandemic began , following the emergence of a cluster of new infections .
The authorities had pledged to test the city 's inhabitants over a 10 - day period , starting on 14 May.
We 've looked at what was achieved , and over what period of time .
What was the target ?
Wuhan has an estimated population of 11 million people .
But those already tested in the seven days prior to mass testing starting in their district , as well as any children under six years of age , have been excluded .
The total number may have been reduced further given that some residents who left Wuhan before the lockdown in January may well not have returned .
The authorities said they would begin with people considered most at risk - such as those in more densely populated areas as well as those in key jobs such as healthcare .
Testing every resident in 10 days would have been a huge challenge
More
We then need to consider the timeframe , which has shifted somewhat since the initial announcement .
The Wuhan authorities later suggested different districts within the city would be starting at different times .
" Each district finishes its tests within 10 days from the date it started them , " the Wuhan Centre for Disease Control said , which effectively extended the deadline beyond the original pledge .
It still remains a very ambitious plan , so do we know how close they 've come to achieving their goal ?
How many have been tested ?
All the data we have comes from the local health authorities in Wuhan , so we need to be aware of not having independent verification for the numbers .
But let 's start with Wuhan 's testing capacity before this latest mass campaign .
There were about 60 centres across the city , with an overall maximum capacity of 100,000 tests a day , according to the official Hubei Daily newspaper .
That would have made it impossible to reach everyone in Wuhan over 10 days .
So testing capacity would have needed to be significantly boosted to meet the challenge .
A mother holds his son next to Yangtze River in Wuhan , in Chinas central Hubei province on May 12 , 2020 .
-
More
One way to scale up testing is to use a batch testing method .
Chinese state media have reported that this has been used in Wuhan .
This process groups individual test samples together to speed up the whole process .
Reports suggest they have been using batches of between five and 10 samples in Wuhan , only carrying out individual tests if a batch proves positive .
This would be an efficient way to test large numbers of people where infection levels are low , as most batches would produce negative results .
So far , the authorities say they have found just over 200 positive cases out of all the tests done so far .
Even with this batch testing in place , processing capacity would have needed to be scaled up massively .
Health officials in Wuhan say they carried out 1.47 m tests on a single day , 22 May - so a huge increase from the 100,000 a day prior to this testing campaign starting .
In total , according to the Hubei health commission website , nine million test samples had been taken by 24 May - 10 days after the campaign started .
Of these , the commission says 6.57 million had been processed .
That 's a very large number and although it 's not possible to verify independently , it appears that Wuhan has managed to ramp up its testing to reach a high proportion of its population during the 10 day period .
Banner image reading ' more about coronavirus '
More
Reality Check branding
More
Read more from Reality Check Send us your questions
Follow us on Twitter

Charity worker found dead at her east London home with Covid-19 after failing to join memorial service .
2020-05-26 14:57:41 +00:00 .
A charity worker was found dead in her home with Covid-19 a day after failing to join a live - streamed memorial service for a former colleague , her friends said today .
Tributes have been paid to Josephine Mukanjira , 38 , who had been self - isolating in her flat in Rainham , east London , with coronavirus symptoms .
Fears were raised for her welfare when she did not attend an online ceremony for friend Mona Mahmoud , 42 , an interpreter for charity Citizens UK who died with Covid-19 a week earlier .
Ms Mukanjira ’s partner is understood to have raised the alarm after visiting her flat when she did not answer the phone .
Paramedics pronounced her dead at the scene on April 17 .
Originally from Uganda , she had been an administrator for Citizens UK , based in Whitechapel , for more than a decade before taking a job as an accountant .
Her friend Bekele Woyecha , senior project manager at Citizens UK , said : “ I called her to tell her about Mona and she said she already knew and was upset by it .
I told her about the memorial service and we spoke about life , the lockdown , everything you would with a friend
and she said she would join the service the next day .
“ When she did n’t I was surprised because she was not the sort of person who would miss something like that .
When I got the call days later that she had been found dead I could n’t believe it .
This virus has taken two of the strongest , kindest women I know . ”
Neil Jameson , the charity ’s founder and director , described her as “ the very best of humanity ... a quiet , inspirational leader .
So much missed . ”
Ms Mukanjira was also a church warden for St Martin ’s in Plaistow .
Rev Jeanette Meadway said : “ Jo was very organised and welcoming member of the church , always willing to help .
She always seemed so fit and healthy .
She had been ill quite early on before the lockdown , but seemed to be recovering . ”
Fellow church warden Manuel Yemoh added : “ Josephine was a dedicated member of our church for about eight years .
She was the cornerstone of anything that happened in the church .
“ She was running the show behind the scenes and keeping our church going through many difficult times .
She attended church with a smile every Sunday and knew every member personally .
“ Her passing has left a hole in the church which it going to take a long time to fill .
However we know she is smiling down on us to make sure we keep on going . ”
Family and friends around the world joined a memorial service streamed on Zoom , including her mother and extended family in Uganda .
Mr Woyecha , who is fundraising for Ms Mukanjira ’s family , added : “ Jo lost both her brothers and was supporting their children and her mum .
We want to do everything we can to help her mum . ”
Read more PM to discuss lockdown easing plans as Cummings row rumbles on- LIVE
Teen spirit feeding Londoners UK coronavirus death toll passes 47,000 , new ONS figures show WHO halts hydroxychloroquine trials on Covid-19 patients amid concerns

BOE Isn’t Close to Implementing Negative Rates, Haldane Says .
2020-05-26 14:49:58 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
One of the Bank of England ’s key policy makers played down the possibility of an imminent cut in interest rates below zero , saying that “ reviewing and doing are different things . ”
Andy Haldane , the BOE ’s chief economist who more than a week ago said officials were assessing negative rates , added Tuesday that policy makers were n’t ruling any options out “ as a matter of principle . ”
“ Currently we are in the review phase , ” he said in an webinar hosted by the Confederation of British Industry Tuesday .
His comments prompted traders to push back bets on negative rates to August of next year , compared with December 2020 last week .
The scale of the recession triggered by the coronavirus pandemic has fueled a debate about the possibility that the U.K. could be the next advanced economy to introduce negative rates .
BOE Governor Andrew Bailey told lawmakers last week that he has changed his view “ a bit ” on the subject but that the policy had received “ pretty mixed reviews ” elsewhere .
The BOE has already cut its benchmark rate twice this year to 0.1 % .
Economists say taking it below zero is probably last on its list of preferred measures , with many predicting an increasing in the size of the central bank ’s bond - buying program next month .
Haldane said that BOE would look at negative rates ’ impact on the financial sector , where they would squeeze margins between lending and deposit rates , and how they would affect confidence in the economy .
The central bank could opt for a partial response by cutting the borrowing rate paid for by banks for loans taken out under its Term Funding Scheme , according to Allan Monks , an economist at JPMorgan .
That could be similar to the ECB ’s decision to ease the terms of its bank lending facilities .
Still , that probably wo n’t be the BOE ’s next step , he said .
“ If the BOE were to introduce negative rates following a review , we think it would do it transparently via the policy rate , ” Monks said .
“ It would be simpler to communicate , probably more effective , and would deliver banks with cheaper funding at the same time . ”
Haldane also said economic output probably wo n’t bounce back as quickly as it plunged and may not return to pre - virus levels until the end of next year .
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Monday England ’s outdoor markets and car showrooms will be able to reopen from June 1 .
All other non - essential retail outlets will be expected to be able to reopen from June 15 if the government can control the spread of the virus .
“ There will be , understandably , a period of prolonged caution in spending by both households and companies , ” he said .
The government should focus on instilling confidence to get people spending , he said , as the U.K. now appears to experiencing the paradox of thrift .
Going off of the BOE ’s latest projections , jobs might not return to their pre - coronavirus levels until 2022 or the following year , he said .
“ This is a sort of V , but it ’s a fairly lopsided V ” with risks to the downside , he said .
( Updates to add JPMorgan comments from seventh paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Coronavirus: Northern Ireland reports zero COVID-19 deaths for first time in two months .
2020-05-26 13:58:26 +00:00 .
There have been no daily deaths from COVID-19 reported in Northern Ireland for the first time in two months .
The country ’s Department of Health said there had been zero coronavirus fatalities in the past 24 hours .
It is the first day since 18 March that no deaths have been reported in Northern Ireland .
The total number of deaths in the country remains at 514 .
There were 28 more confirmed cases of the virus , bringing the overall total cases to 4,637 .
Northern Ireland has followed its neighbour in reporting zero daily deaths for the first time .
On Monday , the Republic of Ireland announced it had reported no deaths over the previous 24 hours , leaving it with 1,606 COVID-19 - related deaths and 24,698 confirmed cases .
Elsewhere on Tuesday , NHS England announced 116 new deaths of people who tested positive for COVID-19 , bringing the total number of confirmed reported deaths in hospitals in England to 25,866 .
Of the 116 new death , 23 occurred on 25 May , 40 on 24 May and 25 on 23 May.
Watch the video below
The figures also show 23 of the new deaths took place between 3 May 3 and 22 May , while the remaining five took place in April with the earliest on 8 April .
Public Health Wales said a further eight people have died after testing positive for coronavirus , taking the total number of deaths in Wales to 1,282 .
Another 141 people have tested positive for COVID-19 , bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 13,556 .
Northern Ireland has taken its initial steps out of lockdown , with the reopening of garden centres , churches for private prayer and golf courses .
However , many businesses will not be permitted to reopen until later in the year .
The Executive at Stormont has published a five - stage plan for recovery , but this does not give exact dates .
More to follow …
Coronavirus : what happened today
Read more about COVID-19 How to get a coronavirus test if you have symptoms
What you can and ca n’t do under lockdown rules
In pictures : How UK school classrooms could look in new normal
How public transport could look after lockdown
How our public spaces will change in the future Help and advice
Read the full list of official FAQs here 10 tips from the NHS to help deal with anxiety
What to do if you think you have symptoms
How to get help if you 've been furloughed

Now in Default, Argentina Plans Improved Offer for Creditors .
2020-05-26 13:06:19 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
As Argentina sunk into its third default this century , the government said it ’s preparing to improve a restructuring proposal for creditors , citing a narrowing gap between the two sides .
Talks with bondholders will continue even after Argentina failed to pay $ 500 million in overdue interest last week , Economy Minister Martin Guzman said in an interview Friday .
He declined to say when the new proposals would be announced , while reiterating that the government was open to changing aspects of its initial offer and that some kind of sweetener to creditors was still on the table .
Argentina , which previously asked bondholders for a three - year moratorium on payments and a sharp cut to interest rates , extended the deadline to reach an agreement until June 2 .
The South American country is looking to restructure $ 65 billion in international debt .
The nation ’s bonds have risen in recent weeks to trade between 30 and 40 cents on the dollar , reflecting increased optimism that a deal will be reached .
Argentina ’s $ 4.5 billion in bonds due next year closed at 38 cent on the dollar on Friday .
The Emerging Market Traders Association recommended on Friday that the country ’s foreign law securities “ trade flat ” starting May 25 until further notice .
While bondholders now have the option to take Argentina to court to sue for full repayment , creditors said last week that legal action against the country would be counterproductive .
Still , people familiar with the matter said last week there was a gap of about 20 cents on the dollar between what the government was offering and what creditors want .
The nation , currently in its third year of recession , was unable to pay its debts even before it went into lockdown to halt the spread of Covid-19 .
An agreement now would just be a first step to salvaging the economy .
“ Argentina does n’t have market access already , ” said Daniel Kerner , a managing director for Latin America at the Eurasia Group .
“ I do n’t think that ’s going to change in the short term whether the government and bondholders settle or not . ”
( Updates with chart , Friday ’s closing bond prices in fifth paragraph , and link to podcast about Argentina ’s default )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

South Korea reports 19 new coronavirus cases as children return to school .
2020-05-26 12:53:22 +00:00 .
Nineteen new coronavirus cases have been reported in South Korea - the day before more than two million children return to school .
South Korean high schools reopened last Wednesday , which saw teachers with thermometers and hand sanitisers welcoming seniors in masks .
The majority of the new cases were in the Seoul metropolitan area , where officials have been actively tracing transmissions linked to nightclubs and other entertainment venues .
South Korea ’s Centres for Disease Control and Prevention also reported two more deaths , bringing the country ’s total to 269 fatalities from 11,225 cases .
Students socially distancing at schools ( AP )
More
Around 2.4 million students will return to school on Wednesday , and health minister Park Neung - hoo has urged school officials to double - check their preventive measures .
A new law has come into force in South Korea requiring people to wear masks on public transport and while using taxis .
Health authorities have left mask enforcement to bus drivers and subway station workers , while taxi drivers are allowed to refuse picking up passengers if they are not wearing masks .
Meanwhile , nearby China has reported seven new cases of Covid-19 , which have all been linked to people returning from abroad .
Authorities said 81 patients are in hospital with the coronavirus , and a further 408 in isolation and being monitored for being either suspected cases or having tested positive for the virus without showing any symptoms .
Students will be given temperature checks ( AFP via Getty Images )
More
Students have gradually returned to class and some international schools in Beijing are preparing to reopen on June 1 .
In the UK , Prime Minister Boris Johnson has insisted schools in England will reopen to more pupils from June 1 as planned , but he acknowledged it might not be possible for all schools .
“ We then intend from June 15 for secondary schools to provide some contact for Year 10 and Year 12 students to help them to prepare for exams next year , with up to a quarter of these students in at any point , " he said on Sunday .
High school students wearing protective masks , queuing up to enter the cafeteria ( via REUTERS )
More Story continues
Mr Johnson said the Government was taking a " deliberately cautious approach " to reopening schools , adding that a final decision will be taken on Thursday .
“ The Department for Education will engage with teaching unions , local authorities and school leaders in the coming days giving them an opportunity to ask questions and probe the evidence behind our plans , " he added .
He admitted it would be “ tough ” to reopen schools but promised to work with councils on the plan for England .
Read more PM bids to deflect from Cummings row with lockdown easing plans- LIVE

Fashion distributor I.T warns annual loss will more than double to US$90 million as coronavirus hits sales .
2020-05-26 10:06:26 +00:00 .
Apparel and accessory retailer I.T has become the latest Hong Kong company to issue a profit warning .
The company said it expects net loss to more than double from its previous forecast in April , as the city ’s economy suffers from one of its worst economic downturns due to the coronavirus pandemic and social unrest .
The distributor of European and Japanese brands such as French Connection and A Bathing Ape said net loss will reach at least HK$700 million ( US$ 90.3 million ) for the year ended February 29 , compared with the HK$300 million forecast in early April .
An increase in impairment provision in the fourth quarter has exacerbated the pain , I.T said .
The results are due to be released on Wednesday .
In its previous profit warning , the company had highlighted the impact of the social unrest in Hong Kong on its sales , worsened by the ongoing coronavirus pandemic .
“ Inbound tourism and spending enthusiasm in several of the group ’s key operating markets such as Hong Kong and Mainland China were adversely impacted , further suppressing the already dampened retail landscape , ” it said .
A man passes by a closed outlet of fashion retailer I.T in Causeway Bay on Monday .
Photo :
Nora Tam
More
The company had also asked employees to take unpaid leave in February and March to prevent its financial situation from deteriorating further .
The profit warning comes as around 10,400 retail workers are expected to lose jobs by the end of this month , according to the trade group Hong Kong Retail Management .
Some 5,200 stores will close this month with the possibility of thousands more shutting down later in the year .
Terry Hong , analyst at Guotai Junan , said the likelihood of further demonstrations to protest against the proposed national security law for Hong Kong will hurt the city ’s retailers further .
The high rents , pandemic , social unrest and drop in tourists from mainland China will continue to weigh on retailers , he added .
Competition from e - commerce platforms has also hurt the owner of in - house fashion brands such as izzue and Chocoolate .
“ There are so many more channels for customers to buy luxury and fashion products , ” said Hong , adding the current easy - to - return rules on e - commerce retailers has persuaded people to turn to brands directly for purchases .
Bossini shares surge as gymnastics star Li Ning comes to the rescue
Chen Ke , senior partner at Roland Berger in Shanghai , said that the recovery of top - end fashion brands would lag those of high street labels as consumers become price conscious in these testing economic times .
“ The pandemic has accelerated the process of pushing out the ones that do not provide unique value and whose products are characterised by homogeneity , ” he added .
I.T shares fell 0.9 per cent in Hong Kong on Tuesday , taking its overall decline to 78.4 per cent since the start of the protests on June 9 .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Fashion distributor I.T warns annual loss will more than double to US$ 90 million as coronavirus hits sales first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Coronavirus: Joe Biden emerges from quarantine on Memorial Day .
2020-05-26 09:02:08 +00:00 .
US Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden has made his first public appearance after more than two months in quarantine amid the Covid-19 crisis .
Wearing a black face mask , the former vice - president laid a wreath at a ceremony in his home state of Delaware .
It was part of an event for Memorial Day - an annual holiday held on the last Monday of May in honour of those who died serving in the US military .
The date also marks the unofficial start of summer .
" It feels good to be out of my house , " Mr Biden told reporters from a distance , and through his mask , adding : " Never forget the sacrifices that these men and women made .
Never , ever , forget . "
Standing alongside his wife Jill , the 77 - year - old then presented a wreath of white roses at Delaware 's War Memorial Plaza , before observing a moment of silence to commemorate the military personnel who fought in World War Two and the Korean War .
Mr Biden and his wife Jill pay their respects to fallen service members
More
Mr Biden has not made an official public appearance since he cancelled a rally in Cleveland on 10 March .
Then , after defeating his Democratic rival Bernie Sanders in primary elections in Florida , Illinois and Arizona , the presidential candidate gave a webcam speech appealing for Mr Sanders ' supporters from his home in Wilmington , Delaware , where he later continued his virtual campaign .
Meanwhile , US President Donald Trump and his wife Melania also took part in a wreath - laying ceremony as part of Memorial Day commemorations .
Donald Trump touches a wreath during ceremonies at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery
More
The president attended a " socially distanced " Memorial Day ceremony at Fort McHenry in Baltimore
More
The president visited Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia and then the historic Fort McHenry in Baltimore .
Mr Trump , who has been reluctant to wear a face mask but said recently he would do so " where it 's appropriate " , appeared without any face coverings at both events on Monday .
The US has more coronavirus cases than anywhere in the world .
It has over 1.6 million known infections and is nearing 100,000 deaths linked to the virus .
All 50 US states have now partially reopened after a two - month shutdown .
However , remaining restrictions vary across the country .
Banner image reading ' more about coronavirus '
More

Two schools in Sydney's east closed after students test positive for Covid-19 .
2020-05-26 07:04:15 +00:00 .
Two schools located just 2 km apart in Sydney ’s eastern suburbs have closed after a student at each tested positive for coronavirus .
The news comes one day after all students across the state returned to the classroom full - time .
Waverley College sent home the 1,100 students from its senior campus on Tuesday morning , after being notified by the parents of a year 7 boy that he had tested positive for the virus .
Parents were told to come and collect their children just before 10 am on Tuesday morning .
The school organised private buses for those whose parents were unable to pick them up , deputy principal Patrick Brennan told reporters , and alerted staff and students who were in direct contact with the infected pupil .
Related : ' We built a dragon habitat ' : readers share stories of lockdown life with kids Down the road , Moriah College evacuated its campus a few hours later after New South Wales Health notified the school that one of its students had also tested positive for Covid-19 .
While public schools across the state officially reopened yesterday , Moriah and Waverley , both independent colleges , resumed face - to - face teaching last week .
Moriah has confirmed the infected student was at school last Thursday 21
May.
Both schools were closed for campus cleaning and contact tracing to take place .
Waverley College and Moriah College are not the first schools in NSW forced to close .
Epping Boys high school , Normanhurst West public school , Warragamba public school , St Marys senior high school and St Ignatius college Riverview , have all had to shut their doors temporarily after students and staff tested positive for coronavirus .
Originally , NSW students were not supposed to return to the classroom full - time until late July .
But the premier , Gladys Berejiklian , brought the date forward last week due to declining transmission rates across the state .
Berejiklian said at the time the “ health advice is very clear – a return to full - time face - to - face teaching is safe ” , but that it would be common to see schools close due to outbreaks .
Related : ' Free childcare has been amazing ' :
Australian parents hope pandemic may pave way for reform
The education minister , Sarah Mitchell , warned after Waverley College closed on Tuesday morning that school shutdowns were “ something that we are going to have to live with ” .
“ We are living through a pandemic and there will be occasions from time to time that we do have a positive case that effects a school community , ” Mitchell told reporters .
“ On any given day , one in five people in NSW are associated with a school community , whether they are a student , a parent or a teacher . ”
It is unclear whether other schools in Waverley will need to reevaluate face - to - face teaching in light of the nearby outbreaks .
A spokeswoman for St Catherine ’s College said it had n’t prompted them to reconsider staying open , but that it had put the school on “ alert ” .
“ We ’ve revisited our processes that we have put in place before should we have to close the school , ” the spokeswoman said .
Meanwhile , spokespersons for Reddam House school , St Clare ’s College and Sydney Catholic schools – which oversees St Charles ’ Catholic primary school – said the confirmed cases in Waverley had not prompted them to consider closing .

Air New Zealand sees annual underlying loss due to coronavirus .
2020-05-26 04:12:36 +00:00 .
By Jamie Freed SYDNEY ( Reuters ) - Air New Zealand Ltd said on Tuesday it would report an underlying loss in the financial year ending June 30 due to the coronavirus outbreak , but had slashed costs to the extent it had not yet needed to draw down a government loan .
The airline has cut 30 % of its staff , or 4,000 employees , and will ground its fleet of 16 Boeing Co 777 widebody planes until at least the end of December .
It will also take a NZ$350 million ( $ 214 million ) to NZ$450 million impairment on the planes .
" We are preparing for a scenario in which the airline is still 30 % smaller than pre - COVID levels in two years ' time , " Chief Financial Officer Jeff McDowall said in a statement .
It will reduce its monthly cash outflow for the financial year ending June 30 , 2021 , by NZ$50 million to NZ$60 million from NZ$150 million to NZ$200 million , General Manager Corporate Finance Leila Peters told analysts .
Air New Zealand said it had short - term liquidity of NZ$640 million as of May 25 and had not drawn on a NZ$900 million government loan that carries annual interest rates ranging from 7 % to 9 % .
If drawn , the government has the ability to seek repayment through a capital raising by the airline after six months , or convert the loan to equity .
McDowall told analysts the airline would draw on the loan if liquidity fell to NZ$200 million to NZ$250 million .
Due to a fall in demand and travel restrictions , Air New Zealand expects a 50 % capacity drop in the six months ending June 30 , leading to a sharp fall in revenue .
Domestic demand is not likely to rebound to normal levels by the end of 2020 , in part because 20 % of passengers are normally international tourists now barred from entering the country , McDowall said .
Australia and Pacific Islands travel is likely to resume quicker than long - haul destinations , he said .
The airline said it would defer or cancel almost NZ$700 million in expected capital spending to December 2022 , including deferrals of planned Airbus SE
A321neo deliveries .
( Reporting by Jamie Freed in Sydney ; Additional reporting by Shreya Mariam Job in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Sonya Hepinstall and Christopher Cushing )

East Sydney school closed after virus case .
2020-05-26 03:45:02 +00:00 .
A private school in Sydney 's eastern suburbs has sent students home after a boy was diagnosed with coronavirus .
A Waverley College spokeswoman confirmed with AAP on Tuesday that the school had closed and implemented its evacuation plan within 90 minutes of learning about the case .
" We 've been in touch with those students and staff members in close contact with the student and are waiting further directions from NSW Health .
Waverley College has been preparing for COVID-19 for months and we have the procedures in place to deliver schooling online in the event of an extended closure , " deputy principal Patrick Brennan later told reporters .
NSW Health has been approached by AAP for comment .
The evacuation comes as public school students returned to full - time classroom learning on Monday and more people headed back to on - site work .
Hundreds of security and marshalling officers were out in force across Sydney 's vast public transport network to monitor social distancing and prevent overcrowding .
NSW Education Minister Sarah Mitchell on Tuesday said the absentee rate at NSW schools on Monday was 14 per cent - only marginally higher than the average 10 per cent rate .
" It 's really a show of confidence by our parents and families in our education system ... they know that our teachers , our principals , our school support staff have worked really hard to get schools ready for children to be back , " Ms Mitchell told reporters .
The NSW government , meanwhile , is urging those with even the mildest of symptoms to get tested for COVID-19 in an attempt to rapidly identify community transmission .
Two new cases of COVID-19 were recorded in the 24 hours to 8 pm on Monday , both in returned overseas travellers .
Premier Gladys Berejiklian says early testing is crucial as people begin to move around the state more freely and the winter months approach .
The state government also confirmed on Tuesday premium rates for insurer iCare will be frozen from June 30 to save businesses across the NSW more than $ 325 million .
" The government has deferred or waived a number of taxes , fees and levies , and I have asked iCare to do the same despite the scheme being heavily impacted by market volatility associated with coronavirus , " NSW Treasurer Dominic Perrottet said .
Almost 3100 cases of COVID-19 have been recorded in NSW , with more than 426,000 people tested for the virus across the state .
The state 's death toll remains at 50 and one person is currently in intensive care .

Process local lobster first, say Val Comeau fishermen after devastating plant fire .
2020-05-25 15:02:27 +00:00 .
For some lobster fishermen in Val Comeau , in northeastern New Brunswick , the loss of the processing plant in a fire Thursday was just the latest blow in an already stressful lobster fishing season .
Steve Ferguson said he wonders what will happen next as they wait to see if the buyer they deal with at Les Pêcheries de Chez - Nous factory will be able to help them out .
" Today and tomorrow , we do n't even know if we have buyers to buy our catch . "
While a large part of the plant was destroyed in a fire , a portion of the processing plant not damaged is set to resume processing lobster this week with about a third of the staff .
The company said 331 people were working at the plant at the time of th fire , and 100 lobster fishermen sold their catch to the plant .
Local fishermen want to make sure their catch will take priority over lobster being brought in from Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island .
" At the end of the day , if they ca n't produce our lobster from here , why are they bringing so much from other provinces .
We want them to buy local first before buying from somewhere else . "
Les Pêcheries de Chez - Nous said it has moved some employees to other plants , but it is still evaluating the impact of the fire and considering the next steps .
" We are exploring every option to address the current situation for our workers and the local fishermen , " the company said in a statement .
Trying to find a buyer and a plant to process their lobster has been stressful for about two - thirds of the fleet that fish from the wharf in Val Comeau and some that fish from Tracadie - Sheila since the fire .
Fishermen were trying to meet with the buyer to see if something could be worked out .
But it 's not all they 've been dealing with said Ferguson .
First , COVID-19 delayed the opening of the spring lobster season in Zone 23 by two weeks from its start date of May 1 to May 15 .
Then Premier Blaine Higgs said the temporary foreign workers on their way to work in fish processing plants and on farms across the province were banned from entering the province .
Processing plants scrambled to find enough staff to help process the lobster .
But two days into the season , some buyers set a quota and limited the amount of lobster they would buy .
But with high catches , Ferguson said , having a 500 - pound quota is hurting the bottom line , especially with the low price they are expecting to be paid .
" Anything under five bucks is not a good price .
" Even trying to sell the remainder of the catch left after the quota is proving difficult with so many others trying to do the same thing .
Ferguson , who has been fishing for 21 years , said he wishes the season would have been cancelled altogether as things like this continue to happen .
" It 's not just Val Comeau wharf , it 's all along the Acadian Peninsula , up north , we have all the same issue with every wharf . "
Keith Chaisson , the MLA for Tracadie - Sheila joined the fishermen at the plant Sunday morning to listen to their concerns .
" Every day they do n't go out fishing is another day they do n't get any money . "
Describing the situation the fishermen are in as a " perfect storm , " the MLA said he was going to take their concerns to the minister of agriculture , aquaculture and fisheries to see if anything can be done to help .

Premier League to vote on return of contact training .
2020-05-25 13:05:05 +00:00 .
Premier League clubs will vote on proposals for a return to contact training on Wednesday as the English top - flight seeks to take another step closer to resuming the season next month .
New UK government guidelines issued on Sunday allow for the return of " close contact " training , including tackling , to help players step up their match fitness ahead of a return to competitive action .
" This type of training would start with smaller ' clusters ' of 2 - 3 athletes and eventually progress to larger groups of 4 - 12 athletes , and ultimately full team training , " added the government advice .
Premier League clubs returned to training in small and socially distanced groups last week .
Players and managers are to be consulted in a meeting on Tuesday before the proposals are put to a vote of the 20 clubs .
Results of the latest round of COVID-19 testing , which is taking place on Monday and Tuesday , will also be published on Wednesday .
The small number of positive tests from the first two rounds of testing at Premier League clubs has raised hopes of a return in June .
Eight cases of coronavirus among players and staff have been detected from 1,744 tests in the Premier League .
In the Championship , just two positive tests were registered from 1,014 tests .
How to proceed in the event of a positive test once contact training has restarted is one of the topics that will be discussed by clubs later this week .
A targeted return date of June 12 was described by Premier League chief executive Richard Masters last week as a " staging post " .
Players and coaches have argued they will need until at least the end of June to mitigate the risk of a spate of injuries after such a long layoff .
There has been no action in the Premier League since March 9 .
However , the biggest hurdle to a return remains players ' fears over their safety and that of their families due to the virus .
Watford captain Troy Deeney has not returned to training after three positive cases were registered by the Hornets over concerns he could spread the virus to his five - month - old son .
French World Cup winner N'Golo Kante has also been given permission by Chelsea to train at home .
Germany 's Bundesliga has already managed to complete two rounds of fixtures since returning behind closed doors and there has been little player opposition to La Liga 's plans to return in Spain from June 11 .
" With what 's happened in Germany , I 've got no doubt the vote will go ahead and the clubs will vote to try to get phase two going , " former Liverpool and England midfielder Jamie Redknapp told Sky Sports .
" I also think there 'll be a situation where more players will opt out , which is their prerogative , but with the success in Germany -- it 's not been great , it 's not the product we really like , with no fans there , but at least it 's football --
I 'll be very surprised if it does n't go ahead . "
Premier League clubs will vote on a return to contact training on Wednesday
Bundesliga clubs have completed two rounds of matches behind closed doors

Unease in Greece as restaurants, cafes reopen .
2020-05-25 10:41:25 +00:00 .
Athens ( AFP ) - Restaurants and cafes across Greece opened ahead of schedule Monday as the country prepared to launch a shortened tourism season vital to its economy .
But with social distancing rules limiting businesses to around 50 percent capacity , and only outdoor tables allowed , many owners questioned the wisdom of reopening after a lockdown of over two months .
" We have to disinfect everything all the time ...
we 'd have to hire someone to clean up and keep track of the customers ... but are unable to do that , " cafe owner Vangelis Daskalopoulos told AFP in Athens .
" I do n't know how we 're going to manage , " he said , adding that he was torn between his fear of the virus and the need to keep his business running .
In cafes like his , a mandatory minimum distance of between 70 cm ( 28 inches ) to 1.7 meters ( 5.5 feet ) between seats is required , and a maximum of six seated customers per table is allowed .
Despite the misgivings of some like Daskalopoulos , patrons were happy for the chance socialise in cafes again .
" I 'm thrilled to break the isolation of recent months and reconnect with friends , " said pensioner Giorgos Karavatsanis .
" The cafe in Greece has a social dimension , it 's where the heart of the district beats , " he said .
But some three in 10 cafes or restaurants were predicted to stay closed out of fear of slow business , Nikos Nifoudis of the Thessaloniki Catering Initiative told Athens News Agency over the weekend
" The sector is very anxious to see how returning to business will play out ...
no one can predict how confident customers are to return to cafes and restaurants , " he said .
- Flights to resume -
Eateries were originally slated to open June 1 , but the slow spread of the pandemic in Greece allowed the date to be moved forward .
The country of 11 million has so far recorded fewer than 180 coronavirus deaths .
Since May 4 , Greece has progressively opened tourism - related businesses following a lockdown imposed in March to stave off an economic contraction that could reach 13 percent of output this year .
Paid beaches opened on May 16 , while ferry travel to the islands was permitted on Monday .
Year - round hotels are to resume operations on June 1 , followed by seasonal hotels on June 15 .
Flights into Athens will restart on June 15 , and to the rest of Greece 's regional and island airports on July 1 .
But Daskalopoulos is worried about the risks incoming travellers may pose .
" People will come from countries that have a greater number of infections ( than Greece 's ) and will not even be checked , " he said .
The EU has said holidaymakers could be asked to wear face masks on planes , respect social distancing on the beach and even book slots to use hotel pools .
Greece had initially wanted incoming tourists to submit to tests at least 72 hours before travel , but Brussels frowned at the suggestion .
Athens now says it will not require travellers to undergo virus testing or quarantine , but sample tests will be carried out for epidemiological purposes .
Restaurants were shuttered on March 14 , two days after Greece recorded its first COVID-19 death , with only takeout food and delivery allowed .

Whitehall reshuffle sees Dominic Cummings’ influence diluted .
2020-05-25 10:24:18 +00:00 .
A Whitehall reshuffle has seen Dominic Cummings ’ influence diluted , after the Prince William ’s private secretary was brought in and a critic of his was promoted .
In a sign that Boris Johnson ’s Chief Political Advisor had lost a rare power defeat Simon Case , the Duke of Cambridge ’s private secretary , was brought into No 10 as the Permanent Secretary .
Mr Case has been described by those who have worked with him as a master navigator , who is able to discreetly negotiate difficult issues .
According to the Mail on Sunday sources claimed that Mr Cummings had been at the centre of an attempt to oust Sir Mark Sedwill , the Cabinet Secretary , although this was denied by No 10 sources .
However the appointment of Mr Case , whose roles have included director of strategy for GCHQ and principal private secretary to former prime ministers , David Cameron and Theresa May , has been seen by some as not only a direct challenge to Sir Mark but also a bid to weaken Mr Cummings ’ influence in Downing Street .
It was revealed in April that Mr Case , 41 , would return to the cabinet office to ensure the " nonshielded vulnerable " , including food bank users and potential victims of domestic violence , received adequate support during the lockdown .
It is believed that Mr Case will also act as a bridge between No 10 and Whitehall .
Mr Cummings has not seen eye to eye with the Whitehall establishment for some time .
In February the civil service was forced to intervene by rewriting human resources rules to ensure the ministerial special advisers he oversees are treated “ with respect . ”
The Cabinet Office subsequently advertised for a senior policy leader to produce new HR policies for special advisers based on “ treating everyone with respect ” and “ building trust ” , which would be overseen by Helen MacNamara , who led the office ’s propriety and ethics team .
Ms MacNamara has since been promoted to Deputy Cabinet Secretary as well as head of the Cabinet Secretariat , which was previously held by Sir Mark .
One source told the MoS : “ There is a view that a few things have been kept out of the Prime Minister ’s view by Sir Mark and that the PM needs a better grip on what he is up to .
He ’s clearly been too thinly spread and now that ’s changing . ”
Bob Kerslake , the former head of the civil service , told The Daily Telegraph : “ Mr Cummings is clearly an iconoclast and not positive about a lot of what the civil service does .
" Change is fine but you have to do it with people rather than go to war with them .
This was a problem before coronavirus , the pandemic has added to the urgent need for these relationships to work and I suspect that 's why Mr Case is back to strengthen the systems and reduce the dysfunctional behaviour that is going on . ”

Bank of Thailand’s Governor Won’t Seek a Second Term .
2020-05-25 07:22:46 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
A new governor will take on the task of shaping Bank of Thailand policy for the Covid-19 induced economic crash after incumbent head Veerathai Santiprabhob decided against seeking a second term .
Veerathai for family reasons wo n’t apply for another five years at the head of the central bank , Assistant Governor Chantavarn Sucharitakul said in a statement on Monday .
He ’ll ensure a smooth transition when his term ends in September , she said .
The window for applications for the post runs from Tuesday to June 16 , and until today ’s statement there had been speculation about whether 50 - year - old Veerathai planned to carry on .
His successor faces the task of steering an economy set to shrink the most this year since the 1990s Asian financial crisis .
“ The change of governor is unlikely to affect policy direction , ” said Jitipol Puksamatanan , the head of market strategy at SCB Securities Co. in Bangkok .
“ The risk may arise if there ’s a strong sense of government intervention in the selection , which could impact the confidence of foreign investors . ”
The government has repeatedly stressed the Bank of Thailand ’s seven - member monetary policy panel independently votes on interest - rate decisions .
The central bank has cut interest rates three times to a record low 0.5 % in 2020 , and said that it ’s studying options such as a large - scale asset purchase program and some form of yield - curve control , if they become necessary .
In March , the Bank of Thailand rolled out a liquidity facility spanning more than 1 trillion baht ( $ 31 billion ) of fixed - income and money market portfolios after corporate bond markets globally suffered major stresses during the worst of the coronavirus - sparked plunge in risk assets .
Last month , the central bank started a 400 billion baht stabilization fund for companies rolling over maturing debt .
It ’s also taken steps to provide cheap funds for commercial banks to lend to small and medium - sized companies .
The National Economic
Social Development Council earlier in May forecast the Thai economy may shrink as much as 6 % this year .
The pandemic has damaged the country ’s traditional drivers of tourism and trade .
Veerathai became governor in October 2015 , about a year and a half after a military coup in Thailand .
He faced a sluggish economy burdened by elevated household debt and a strengthening currency .
His tenure was marked by a series of steps to restrain the baht .
An economist and devout Buddhist with a doctorate from Harvard University , Veerathai previously said that meditation is his way of staying balanced in a volatile world .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Xi Jinping says China must strengthen health system after coronavirus pandemic .
2020-05-24 23:40:11 +00:00 .
Chinese President Xi Jinping has called for an overhaul of the country ’s public health system , which has been criticised for being ill - prepared for the Covid-19 pandemic that claimed more than 4,600 lives in the country .
In a meeting with delegates to the national legislature from Hubei , the country ’s worst - hit province , Xi said addressing and preventing epidemics and other public health crises was a matter of national security and a systematic effort was needed to improve shortcomings , such as epidemic monitoring and warning systems , state media reported on Sunday .
On Friday Premier Li Keqiang said in his annual government report that reforming the country ’s disease prevention and control system would be high on the leadership ’s agenda this year , alongside other challenges including reviving the economy amid the global recession triggered by the pandemic .
The pandemic has laid bare many problems with China ’s disease prevention and control system , which was modelled on its US counterpart and refined in the aftermath of the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome outbreak .
These problems included a lack of funding , understaffing in local offices and an inefficient public health reporting system that hampered the response when the first reports of the disease emerged in Wuhan , the provincial capital of Hubei , late last year .
One key problem was that the national Centre for Disease Control and Prevention was powerless to inform the public about a potential pandemic .
Xi ’s speech did not outline specific measures but called for the disease prevention and control system to be strengthened , with solid grass - roots foundations and a stronger role for lower - level medical institutions such as township health centres .
He also said the country should establish an “ intelligent multi - point ” trigger mechanism to improve the monitoring and early warning systems .
He also wanted to improve “ basic conditions ” in the disease prevention and control system and set up a training system to enhance front - line workers ’ “ sense of honour and mission ” .
“ Prevention is the most economical and effective health strategy , ” Xi said .
“ We must adhere to prevention as we launch a patriotic health campaign in the new era . ”
Xi also suggested that some lifestyle measures adopted during the pandemic should continue , such as using separate chopsticks for serving and eating food , better waste collection systems and the use of masks and social distancing to stop the spread of infections .
Xi also described Wuhan as a “ heroic city ” that had made considerable sacrifices to fight the pandemic .
According to official figures , around 4,500 people have been killed by Covid-19 in Hubei , including more than 3,800 in Wuhan .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
This article Xi Jinping says China must strengthen health system after coronavirus pandemic first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Trump's senior economic adviser said unemployment could pass 20% by June and remain at double digits through November .
2020-05-24 23:22:22 +00:00 .
Alex Wong / Getty Images
Senior White House economic adviser Kevin Hassett said US unemployment rates are likely to spike in June at " north of 20 % " and could still be in the double digits through November .
" If there were a vaccine in July , then I 'd be way more optimistic about it , " Hassett said on CNN 's " State of the Union , " referencing how consumer activity and markets have been shaken by the novel coronavirus .
November coincides with the US general election , and high unemployment rates could spell trouble for President Donald Trump as he was banking on a strong economy to help his reelection campaign .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Senior White House economic adviser Kevin Hassett said that unemployment rates sparked by the novel coronavirus pandemic will start to trend downward in June , but could still be in double - digits this fall .
Hassett said on CNN 's " State of the Union " Sunday morning that the US unemployment rate will be higher in June than May before starting to trend down , three months after the coronavirus crisis triggered a record amount of layoffs and furloughs .
US employment will likely be at " a number north of 20 % in May , " Hassett said .
Host Dana Bash later asked Hassett if it was possible the unemployment rate could still be in the double digits in November , which the adviser said he did .
" I think that yes , unemployment will be something that moves back slower , " Hassett said .
He continued : " You 're going to be starting at a number in the 20s and working your way down and so , of course , you could still not be back to full employment by September or October . "
" If there were a vaccine in July , then I 'd be way more optimistic about it , " he added , referencing how consumer activity and markets have been shaken by the pandemic .
Though there are more than 100 ongoing coronavirus vaccine projects , experts have said a widely distributable vaccine wo n't be available until early 2021 and have cautioned against speedy approvals .
November coincides with the US presidential election , and high unemployment rates could stifle President Donald Trump 's chances at reelection as he was banking on a strong economy to help his campaign .
In late March , Trump went against the advice of public - health experts and urged the economy to reopen after coronavirus lockdown measures , downplaying the threat of the coronavirus outbreak to salvage his strongest case for reelection , Business Insider 's Eliza Relman previously reported .
According to a report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics published on May 22 , three of the worst - hit US states had unemployment rates higher than 20 % .
Nevada had the highest unemployment rate in April — 28.2 % — followed by Michigan at 22.7 % , and Hawaii at 22.3 % .
Overall , 43 states set historic levels of unemployment in April , the report said .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Delay in imposing lockdown saw cases rise by 1.3 million in nine days, says report .
2020-05-24 20:45:29 +00:00 .
The Government ’s decision to delay implementing lockdown restrictions saw the number of those infected with coronavirus rise by 1.3 million in nine days , suggests a new report .
According to an investigation by the Sunday Times ’s Insight team , Boris Johnson ’s delay in imposing measures saw cases rise from 200,000 on March 14 to 1.5 million on March 23 as the Government deliberated on the timing and scale of the lockdown .
The increase in cases during this time is shown in a study by Imperial College London ’s pandemic modellers and Oxford University ’s department of statistics .
The study used backward modelling to calculate that the rate of infection was doubling every three days on March 14 – the date it is believed the Government first agreed that lockdown measures would be necessary to curb the virus ’s spread .
Professor Peter Openshaw , a member of the Government ’s Nervtag ( new and emerging respiratory virus threats advisory group ) , told the paper : “ I think that critical period of delay made the big difference to the peak numbers , both of hospitalisations and of deaths .
“ I think everyone would accept now in retrospect that if we ’d gone for lockdown a couple of weeks earlier that would have greatly reduced the numbers of hospitalisations and deaths . ”
In a statement to the paper , a spokesman said the Government ’s strategy throughout the pandemic has been to protect the NHS and “ save lives ” .
“ It has been vital through this global pandemic to make interventions which the public can feasibly adopt in sufficient numbers over long periods . ”
It comes after a leading expert in strategic studies and professor at King 's College London said the Government 's delay in implementing the lockdown had also led to a higher death toll .
Professor Sir Lawrence Freedman said the Government followed public opinion rather than shaping it in the early days of the outbreak , before announcing the lockdown restrictions on March 23 .
The PM has outlined five tests the country must pass before lockdown restrictions are lifted .
There are reports Mr Johnson is set to ease lockdown restrictions on outdoor activities such as garden parties and market stalls from next month .
Read more PM must sack Dominic Cummings after ' lockdown breach ' , says Tory MP Cummings lockdown row continues as PM ' to ease lockdown
further'-live

Coronavirus: Markets, car dealerships and garden fetes set to open from June .
2020-05-24 18:10:20 +00:00 .
Market stalls , car dealerships and garden fetes will reopen from June , the prime minister is set to announce next week .
Sky News has confirmed that Boris Johnson plans to ease restrictions on open - air activities , with National Trust parks also expected to be allowed to open from next month as long as indoor sections stay closed .
The PM will hold a cabinet meeting on Monday to update ministers on how the government will slowly ease the coronavirus lockdown for certain sectors in England .
He will also discuss giving the green light for some non - essential stores to open .
While no changes are expected before June 1 , it is understood there will be guidance and advice relating to which shops and attractions can open under step two of Mr Johnson 's roadmap to a ' new normal ' .
In the coming days he is expected to announce the easing of open - air restrictions for the public , as well as provide an update on the new trace and test system , give an announcement on schools , and provide more detail on how the government will unlock the nation .
The new test and trace system is set to launch next week , with 25,000 contact tracers recruited .
A Number 10 spokesperson said the rollout of the test and trace system will mean that " in time , lockdown will no longer be necessary for the vast majority of the public and instead it will be possible for there to be a targeted lockdown for a small number of people " .
" For this to be effective , everyone will need to stay alert and play their part to control the virus and save lives .
" By working with our tracers and complying with the rules , the public will avoid unknowingly spreading the virus to their family and loved ones and this new test and trace service will help to control coronavirus . "
Under UK law , all government 's lockdown measures need to be reviewed every three weeks .
: : Listen to the Daily podcast on Apple Podcasts , Google Podcasts , Spotify , Spreaker Scientific advice that guides the strategies includes efforts to keep the ' R number ' below one - the rate showing how many people a person with coronavirus infects .
All four home nations are loosening measures to allow people more freedom , but they do differ in their approaches as they make their own decisions on health - and nobody can yet move across borders .
Mr Johnson previously said the original " stay at home " guidance " could n't be starker " when the most stringent lockdown was first announced on 23 March .
But he admitted the new " stay alert " coronavirus message , introduced on 10 May , is " more complicated " , after his plan to ease lockdown was criticised for being confusing .
The " conditional plan " for easing the coronavirus lockdown in England sets out three phases .
Mr Johnson has previously said step two , which could be enacted from the start of June , would include some school classes returning , a " phased reopening " of shops and the possibility of enabling small wedding ceremonies .

Coronavirus intensive care doctor says Dominic Cummings' alleged lockdown breach 'spits in face of NHS efforts' .
2020-05-24 15:07:46 +00:00 .
An intensive care doctor has hit out at Dominic Cummings for “ spitting in the face ” of efforts made by frontline NHS workers with his alleged breach of lockdown rules .
Dr Dominic Pimenta , a London cardiology registrar , said he will resign if Boris Johnson ’s chief aide fails to quit after reports emerged that he broke the rules more than once .
Posting a picture clad in personal protective equipment , Dr Pimenta , co - CEO of NHS workers charity Heroes , tweeted : “ This is me right now heading back into the Covid ICU I ’ve worked for the last two months .
“ This stuff is hot and hard work .
Have n’t seen my parents since January .
“ Frankly , Cummings spits in the face of all our efforts , the whole NHS .
If he does n’t resign , I will . ”
It comes as Mr Cummings , the most senior aide to the Prime Minister , is under mounting pressure from across the political spectrum to quit .
Reports have surfaced that the 48 - year - old made two trips to County Durham , where his family lives , in March and April despite stringent social restrictions being in place .
Dominic Cummings is under mounting pressure to go ( AFP via Getty Images )
More
A group of nine Tories broke ranks on Sunday to demand he resigns , with prominent 1922 Committee member Steve Baker insisting he “ must go ” and that “ no one is indispensable ” .
“ If he does n’t resign , we ’ll just keep burning through Boris ’s political capital at a rate we can ill afford in the midst of this crisis , ” he told Sky ’s Sophy Ridge programme
“ It is very clear that Dominic travelled when everybody else understood Dominic ’s slogans to mean ‘ stay at home , protect the NHS and save lives ’ . ”
Craig Whittaker , Conservative MP for Calder Valley in West Yorkshire , said Mr Cummings ’ position was “ untenable ” , tweeting : “ You can not advise the nation one thing then do the opposite . ”
But Mr Cummings denied allegations he made the second trip to Durham when intercepted by reporters outside his London home , before travelling to Number 10 .
The PM 's top aide arrived at Downing Street this lunchtime ( PA )
More
The PM pledged his “ full support ” on Saturday to his under - fire chief adviser , who it emerged had travelled 260 miles to the North East in March to self - isolate with his family while official guidelines warned against long - distance journeys .
Story continues
According to reports in the Observer and Sunday Mirror , the former Vote Leave campaign co - ordinator made a second trip to Durham and was seen there on April 19 – five days after being photographed on his return to Westminster .
A second witness told the papers they saw him a week earlier in Barnard Castle on Easter Sunday , a popular tourist location 30 miles from Durham , during the period he was believed to be self - isolating .
Downing Street has said it would “ not waste time ” replying to the fresh allegations from “ campaigning newspapers ” .

Does the Stock Market Close Early for Memorial Day? .
2020-05-24 13:45:00 +00:00 .
Memorial Day is the traditional start to summer , though there 's hardly anything traditional about this year 's day of commemoration .
The annual rituals of opening up the pool , running across a sandy beach and throwing a backyard cookout might very well be on hold across various parts of the country that are slowly reopening from the COVID-19 pandemic .
However , one thing will remain the same : Investors will get an extra day off .
Both the stock market and the bond market are closed on May 25 in observation of Memorial Day .
Also , the bond market closes early the Friday before Memorial Day .
Regular trading in stocks and bonds resumes on Tuesday .
The following is a schedule of stock market and bond market holidays for 2020 .
Please note that regular trading hours for the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) and Nasdaq Stock Market are 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Eastern on weekdays .
The stock markets close at 1 p.m. on early - closure days ; bond markets close early at 2 p.m. 2020 Market Holidays DateHolidayNYSENasdaqBond Markets Wednesday , Jan. 1 New Year 's Day Closed Closed Closed Monday , Jan. 20
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
Closed Closed Closed Monday , Feb.
17 Presidents ' Day / Washington 's Birthday Closed Closed Closed Thursday , April 9 Maundy Thursday Open Open
Early close ( 2 p.m. ) Friday , April 10
Good Friday Closed Closed Closed Friday , May 22 Friday Before Memorial Day Open Open
Early close ( 2 p.m. )
Monday , May 25 Memorial Day Closed Closed Closed Thursday , July 2 Day
Before Independence Day Open Open
Early close ( 2 p.m. )
Friday , July 3 Independence Day ( Observed )
Closed Closed Closed Monday , Sept. 7
Labor Day Closed Closed Closed Monday , Oct. 12 Columbus Day Open Open Closed Wednesday , Nov. 11 Veterans Day Open Open Closed Thursday , Nov. 26 Thanksgiving Day Closed Closed Closed Friday , Nov. 27 Day
After Thanksgiving Early close ( 1 p.m. )
Early close ( 1 p.m. )
Early close ( 2 p.m. ) Thursday , Dec. 24 Christmas Eve Early close ( 1 p.m. )
Early close ( 1 p.m. )
Early close ( 2 p.m. ) Friday , Dec. 25 Christmas Day Closed Closed Closed Thursday , Dec. 31 New Year 's Eve Open Open
Early close ( 2 p.m. ) Friday , Jan. 1 , 2021 New Year 's Day Closed Closed Closed Market Holiday Observations
When a holiday falls on a weekend , market closures are dictated by two rules :
If the holiday falls on a Saturday , the market will close on the preceding Friday .
If the holiday falls on a Sunday , the market will close on the subsequent Monday .
EDITOR 'S PICKS Copyright 2020
The Kiplinger Washington Editors

Trump haunted by awkward 2014 tweet .
2020-05-24 09:06:21 +00:00 .
One of Donald Trump ’s tweets from 2014 criticising his predecessor has come back to haunt him as the US president indulges in one of his favourite activities .
It ’s been more than two months since President Trump declared the coronavirus pandemic a national emergency , which led to most of America to shut down .
On Saturday , the president played golf for the first time since the declaration .
His return to the course was the latest sign that he wants the country back to pre - outbreak times , even as the US death toll from the virus nears 100,000 , twice what he once predicted it would be .
US President Donald Trump plays golf at the Trump National Golf Club in Sterling , Virginia .
Source : EPA
More Trump pulled away from the White House on a sunny morning wearing a white polo shirt , white cap and dark slacks .
Photographs that appeared later on Twitter showed him swinging a golf club and driving alone in a cart on the course at his private Trump National Golf Club in Sterling , Virginia .
The White House had no comment on the president ’s activities at the club , but said he and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had discussed the pandemic ’s effect on the global economy on Saturday .
However , a tweet from 2014 where President Trump criticised then - president Barack Obama for playing golf during the Ebola epidemic emerged .
“ President Obama has a major meeting on the N.Y.C. Ebola outbreak , with people flying in from all over the country , but decided to play golf , ” President Trump tweeted six years ago .
CNN pointed out on October 24 , when President Trump tweeted , there were only two confirmed cases , whereas the US now has more than 1.6 million confirmed cases of COVID-19 .
Of course , that was n’t the first time President Trump critiqued the Obama administration .
In August 2014 , once again tweeting about Ebola , he called the leaders “ incompetent ” .
“ Ebola patient will be brought to the U.S. in a few days - now I know for sure that our leaders are incompetent , ” he tweeted .
“ KEEP THEM OUT OF HERE ! ”
President Trump then called Obama “ stupid ” in a tweet from September 2014 .
“ Why are we sending thousands of ill - trained soldiers into Ebola infested areas of Africa !
Bring the plague back to U.S. ?
Obama is so stupid , ” he said .
Trump is an avid golfer who has been overheard telling his White House guests how much he had missed playing the game .
The United States has the most confirmed cases of coronavirus in the world .
Source : AP Photo
More
The golf outing came a day after Trump said houses of worship were “ essential ” and he demanded that governors allow them to reopen during the holiday weekend .
It also followed guidance from Dr. Deborah Birx , the White House coronavirus task force coordinator , that it was OK for people to be outdoors this weekend as long as they took appropriate safety precautions .
She also said the Washington metropolitan area had the highest positivity rate in the country .
The capital city ’s coronavirus death rate is higher than all but four states : New York , New Jersey , Massachusetts and Connecticut .
− With Associated Press
Do you have a story tip ?
Email :
newsroomau@yahoonews.com .
You can also follow us on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play .

UK PM Johnson resists calls to sack Cummings over 400 km drive .
2020-05-23 21:15:02 +00:00 .
By Guy Faulconbridge LONDON ( Reuters ) - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson resisted calls on Saturday from opposition parties to sack senior adviser Dominic Cummings after he travelled 400 km ( 250 miles ) to northern England while his wife showed COVID-19 symptoms .
Cummings , who masterminded the 2016 campaign to leave the European Union during the Brexit referendum , travelled to Durham in late March , when a strict lockdown was already in place .
Johnson 's office said Cummings made the journey to ensure his 4 - year - old son could be properly cared for as his wife was ill with COVID-19 and there was a " high likelihood " that Cummings would himself become unwell .
" I behaved reasonably and legally , " Cummings told reporters outside his house after telling them to stay 2 metres apart in accordance with government guidelines .
Asked if he would consider his position , he said : " Obviously not . "
He then chided reporters for being wrong about the result of the 2016 Brexit referendum .
" You guys are probably all about as right about that as you were about Brexit : do you remember how right you all were about that ? "
Cummings said .
Ministers voiced support for the senior adviser .
" I can tell you that the PM provides Mr Cummings with his full support , " Transport Secretary Grant Shapps told reporters , adding that he did not know when the prime minister found out about the journey .
Downing Street said Cummings ' " actions were in line with coronavirus guidelines " and said the Guardian and the Mirror newspapers , which first reported the story , had made " false allegations " .
" They are writing more inaccurate stories including claims that Mr Cummings returned to Durham after returning to work in Downing Street on 14 April , " Downing Street said .
" We will not waste our time answering a stream of false allegations about Mr Cummings from campaigning newspapers . "
" SACK CUMMINGS "
But opposition parties called for Johnson to sack Cummings and Labour called on the country 's most senior civil servant , Mark Sedwill , to open an investigation into the journey .
" The British people do not expect there to be one rule for them and another rule for the prime minister ’s most senior adviser , " Labour said .
Just a few days before Cummings ' journey , Johnson imposed a lockdown in the United Kingdom and asked people to stay at home .
He said on March 23 that people " should not be meeting family members who do not live in your home " .
Shortly after Johnson announced that he had tested positive for COVID-19 , Cummings sprinted out of Downing Street on March 27 and developed symptoms on the weekend of March 28 - 29 .
Government guidelines say that those who have COVID-19 or suspect they have it should self - isolate for at least seven days along with their household and not leave their house for any reason .
The Scottish National Party and the Liberal Democrats called for Cummings to be sacked .
Other prominent figures have resigned after breaking lockdown rules .
Epidemiologist Neil Ferguson quit as a member of the government 's scientific advisory group after he was visited at home by his girlfriend .
Scotland ’s chief medical officer , Catherine Calderwood , stepped down after she was caught making two trips to her second home .
( Reporting by Guy Faulconbridge ;
Editing by Angus MacSwan , John Stonestreet , James Drummond and Peter Graff )

New York’s Daily Death Toll Falls Under 100; Gatherings Allowed .
2020-05-23 17:47:56 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
New deaths in New York from Covid-19 dropped below 100 for the first time since just after the state went under lockdown , Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Saturday , calling it “ a sign that we are making real progress . ”
The state had 84 new fatalities .
“What we ’re doing is working , ” Cuomo said , almost three months after the state ’s first coronavirus case was diagnosed on March 1 .
At the start of Memorial Day weekend , the governor spoke largely of progress .
Friday night he issued an unexpected order allowing groups of up to 10 people to gather anywhere in the state , as long as they maintained social distancing guidelines .
Cuomo said that Long Island , hard hit by the virus , could begin reopening as early as next week , as could the seven - county mid - Hudson region .
He gave no projection for New York City , which is the final area of the state without an indicated opening date .
The city remains under official lockdown until at least May 28 .
The state ’s daily death toll had been stuck in the 100s for 12 days , and the drop below 100 was first time since March 24 .
Cuomo announced New York would go “ on pause ” on March 20 , effectively shutting down the entire state .
‘ Overall Good News ’
“ Eighty - four is still a tragedy , no doubt , but the fact that it ’s down as low as it is really is overall good news , ” Cuomo told reporters in Albany .
The peak of the crisis hit at 799 deaths in one day in mid - April .
The official death count was 23,195 on Friday .
New York reported 1,772 new virus cases on Saturday , for a state total of 359,926 .
Cuomo said that total and new hospitalizations continued to drop , as did admissions to intensive care .
Cuomo did n’t explain in detail his decision to allow gatherings of up to 10 people anywhere in the state , New York City included .
He said he was n’t aware of a lawsuit filed Friday by the American Civil Liberties Union objecting to the governor ’s earlier order that allowed gatherings up to that size only for religious services and Memorial Day commemorations .
“ It depends on how people act , ” Cuomo said .
“ You can have a safe gathering of 10 people .
You can also have a wholly unsafe gathering of 10 people . ”
After two months of lockdowns , regional leaders face a major test this Memorial Day weekend , as crowds flock to beaches and parks and gather for holiday celebrations .
New York City ’s beaches remained closed .
Rain probably deterred many from traveling to Long Island or New Jersey on Saturday , an influx that local officials have feared .
Sunday ’s weather forecast looks less wet , and temperatures will warm somewhat by Monday .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Netflix Users Have Fewest Technical Problems of Any Streaming Service, Study Finds .
2020-05-23 12:59:00 +00:00 .
Click here to read the full article .
Netflix is delivering the most trouble - free streaming service amid the jump in video streaming during the coronavirus crisis , according to a new study .
Netflix users reported just 0.07 technical problems per hour of content streamed on average , according to a J.D. Power April 24 - 26 survey of U.S. streaming users .
That ’s meaningfully lower than problem incidents reported for Amazon Prime Video and Hulu ( 0.11 ) , Disney Plus ( 0.12 ) and YouTube TV ( 0.13 ) .
Technical problem rates were even higher among all other streaming services , at 0.17 per hour streamed .
To be sure , the error rates are very low across all streaming services in the study .
But in the streaming wars , even the tiniest incremental differences can have big ramifications in retaining subscribers .
With its high rates of content engagement and low technical problems , Netflix is the No . 1 service consumers said they would keep in response to the hypothetical question of which service they would pick if they could keep only one .
About 54 % of respondent said they would choose Netflix , followed by Amazon Prime Video ( 17 % ) , Hulu ( 13 % ) and Disney Plus ( 4 % ) , per the J.D. Power study .
( A caveat :
The survey did not poll users about price . )
“ There is no question that the great content is critical for streaming service success , but the quality of audio and video … is the key differentiator for top - performing streaming providers , ” Ian Greenblatt , managing director of J.D. Power ’s technology , media and telecom practice , wrote in the report released this week .
He cited factors such as sharp picture resolution , fast loading speeds , responsive controller inputs and perfect synchronization between audio and video as contributors to overall customer satisfaction .
Streaming Problems per Hour Watched Source : J.D. Power TMT Insight COVID-19 Pulse Report , April 2020
That said , Netflix — like any other always - on service — occasionally hits technical turbulence .
Most recently , on March 25 , Netflix ’s web - based streaming service experienced an hour - long outage across the U.S. and Europe .
Note , too , that the J.D. Power study was U.S.-only , and some Netflix customers in the U.K. and Europe have complained that the streamer has continued to throttle back video bit rates ( a program designed to cut back data usage during the coronavirus pandemic ) .
Overall , though , Netflix outperforms rivals on reliability , something J.D. Power attributed in part to its longstanding hybrid content delivery network ( CDN ) strategy .
Under Netflix ’s Open Connect program , first introduced in 2012 , the company has agreements with internet service providers around the world to co - locate streaming servers to localize “ substantial amounts ” of traffic as close as possible to end users .
The J.D. Power report is based on a survey of 1,232 U.S. adults conducted April 24 - 26 , 2020 .
About 67 % of streaming video users say they are spending “ somewhat ” or “ substantially ” more time streaming than they did before COVID-19 lockdowns , the study found .
That ’s borne out by data from Nielsen , which says streaming to TVs continues at elevated levels .
For the week of May 11 - 17 , U.S. broadband households streamed 141.7 billion minutes of video to televisions — up 75 % from the comparable period in 2019 .
Netflix represented 32 % of total streaming minutes for the most recent period , followed by YouTube at 21 % .

Trump press secretary scolds media for not spreading Obamagate conspiracy .
2020-05-23 03:54:28 +00:00 .
White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany admonished the press corps on Friday for refusing to promote unproven theories suggesting Barack Obama and other administration officials sought to undermine Donald Trump‘s campaign and election with the “ unmasking ” of the president ’s former aide .
Chanel Rion with One America News , which the president has praised for its flattering coverage , asked whether Mr Trump was “ considering pardoning ” his predecessor , who has n’t been convicted of any crime , for “ illegally wiretapping ” and “ illegally spying on citizens ” among “ other potential crimes ” as part of the president ’s “ Obamagate “ conspiracy , in which former Obama officials are accused of entrapping former national security adviser Michael Flynn as part of a “ deep state ” sting against his administration .
The question appeared to be an assist for the press secretary to read from prepared remarks and show several virtual slides with prepared “ questions ” for reporters to ask Mr Obama .
“ Any good journalist would want to answer why people were unmasked , ” Ms McEnany said . ”
Did anyone take it upon themselves to pose any questions about Michael Flynn and unmasking to president Obama ’s spokesperson ?
Not a single journalist has posed that question . ”
Ms McEnany had previously called on the press last week to “ investigate ” Obamagate when was asked directly what crimes were committed by Mr Trump ’s predecessor , after the president failed to explain his accusations .
The president later thanked his “ keyboard warriors ” on Twitter .
Mr Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI as part of the bureau ’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election .
Mr Trump ’s attorney general William Barr filed a motion to dismiss the case .
The former national security adviser pleaded guilty to lying to the bureau about the substance of a phone call with then - Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak .
During the briefing , the president also announced that we wants houses of worship to “ open right now ” and has instructed governors to do so , or he will threaten to “ override ” officials who defy him , he said .
But Ms McEnany failed to point to any federal statute that gives the president broad authority to do so and suggested that the press wants to continue closing churches , synagogues and mosques .
She said : “ The president will strongly encourage every governor to allow their churches to reopen , and boy , it ’s interesting to be in a room that desperately wants to seem to see these churches and houses of worship stay closed . ”
The president announced that he has labelled houses of worship as “ essential ” during the coronavirus pandemic , and the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) released new guidelines for worshipping with physical distancing and other mitigation efforts as nearly every state begins to ease restrictions from weeks of lock - down measures .
White House reporters objected to Ms McEnany ’s remarks — Reuters reporter Jeff Mason told her he is ” dying to go back to church ” — and pressed Ms McEnany over whether it is safe to reopen in areas where quarantine measures are still necessary .
“ Jeff , it is safe to reopen your churches if you do so in accordance with the guidelines , ” Ms McEnany said .
The CDC guidelines were not issued before the briefing .
Read more
The Michael Flynn ‘ unmasking ’ explained FBI director orders internal review of Flynn investigation
Trump orders governors to reopen churches with immediate effect
How two Trump tweets caused an ‘ Obamagate ’ domino effect in the Senate Flynn ’s lawyers seek dismissal as Trump pushes ‘ Obamagate ’ conspiracy
What would it take for Trump to suffer landslide defeat ?

UK plans cut in Huawei’s 5G network involvement: report .
2020-05-23 02:42:26 +00:00 .
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is planning to reduce Chinese telecommunications equipment maker Huawei Technologies ’ involvement in the country ’s 5 G mobile network development in the wake of the coronavirus crisis , according to a report by The Daily Telegraph newspaper .
Johnson has asked officials to make plans to reduce China ’s involvement in British infrastructure to zero by 2023 , the newspaper reported late on Friday .
Johnson is expected to use less reliance on China as a means to boost trade talks with US President Donald Trump in the aftermath of Britain ’s departure from the European Union , according to the newspaper .
Downing Street declined to comment .
Huawei did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to use less reliance on China as a means to boost trade talks with US President Donald Trump .
Photo : Reuters
More
Earlier on Friday , The Times reported that Johnson has instructed civil servants to make plans to end Britain ’s reliance on China for vital medical supplies and other strategic imports .
Beijing is being criticised for its handling of the coronavirus pandemic , which began in China .
Beijing denies US allegations it has not been transparent about the outbreak .
“ He ( Johnson ) still wants a relationship with China , but the Huawei deal is going to be significantly scaled back .
Officials have been instructed to come up with a plan to reduce Huawei ’s involvement as quickly as possible , ” a source was quoted by The Telegraph as saying .
The development would be a change of direction for Britain , which confirmed in late April that it would allow Huawei to have a role in building its 5 G mobile infrastructure .
Britain decided in January to allow Huawei into what the government said were non - sensitive parts of the 5 G mobile network , capping its involvement at 35 per cent .
The US government has raised security concerns about Huawei ’s telecoms equipment , and warned that allies that use it in their networks risked being cut off from valuable intelligence sharing feeds .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article UK plans cut in Huawei ’s 5 G network involvement : report first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Passenger plane crashes in residential neighborhood of Karachi, Pakistan .
2020-05-22 20:24:21 +00:00 .
Over 100 people are feared dead after a passenger plane went down in the Pakistan city of Karachi on Friday afternoon .
On Friday afternoon , local time , reports flooded in of a big black cloud of smoke coming from a residential area near Model Colony in Karachi .
The Airbus 320 jet , carrying 99 passengers and 8 crew members , was minutes away from landing when it crashed in the neighborhood around 2:45 p.m. local time , according to a statement made by Pakistan International Airlines ( PIA ) that owns and operates the jet .
Flight number PK8303 left the airport in the capital city of Lahore earlier in the afternoon and was set to land at Karachi 's Jinnah International Airport .
Fire brigade staff try to put out fire caused by plane crash in Karachi , Pakistan , Friday , May 22 , 2020 .
An aviation official says a passenger plane belonging to state - run Pakistan International Airlines carrying more than 100 passengers and crew has crashed near the southern port city of Karachi .
There were no immediate reports on the number of casualties .
( AP Photo / Fareed Khan )
" Our crew is trained to handle emergency landings .
All my prayers are with the families , " PIA spokesperson Abdullah Hafeez said , confirming the crash .
A massive search and rescue operation was underway Friday afternoon .
CLICK
HERE FOR THE FREE ACCUWEATHER APP
While the PIA made no official statements about survivors of the crash , CNN confirmed that at least 11 bodies were taken to the nearby hospital of Jinnah Hospital .
It was unclear if these victims were bystanders from the ground or plane passengars .
The Mirror said local media reported as many as 40 bodies being rescued from the site .
Volunteers carry the dead body of a plane crash victim at the site of a crash in Karachi , Pakistan , Friday , May 22 , 2020 .
An aviation official says a passenger plane belonging to state - run Pakistan International Airlines carrying more than 100 passengers and crew has crashed near the southern port city of Karachi .
There were no immediate reports on the number of casualties .
( AP Photo / Fareed Khan )
This airplane crash comes amid the global COVID-19 pandemic , Domestic commercial flights in Pakistan had only resumed a few days ago , May 16 , after a nationwide lockdown that halted air traffic in the country to help contain the spread of the virus .
The crash also occurred just a day or two before the start of Eid , a festival that marks the end of fasting during Ramadan .
Pakistan has one of the largest Muslim populations in the word .
The official cause of the crash is currently unknown and still being investigated .
However , PIA chief executive Air Vice Marshal Arshad Malik said the pilot called into traffic control before the crash to report " technical difficulties " and the loss of at least one engine .
At the time of the crash , weather conditions were calm in the Karachi area .
" Hazy sunshine and dry conditions held throughout the afternoon in Karachi , with light winds , " according to AccuWeather Meteorologist Rob Richards .
As clean - up and search and rescue efforts continue , the typical heat and sunshine for this time of year is expected to persist .
" Without much of a change in the weather pattern during the coming days , haze is anticipated to continue for at least several days .
This could lead to poorer air quality , which may be unhealthy for sensitive groups , " Richards added .
This is a breaking story .
Keep checking back on
AccuWeather.com and stay tuned for more information .

Mark Zuckerberg is now the 3rd richest person in the world after his fortune grew $30 billion since the coronavirus crisis began .
2020-05-22 18:41:08 +00:00 .
Charles Platiau / Reuters
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is now worth $ 87.8 billion , making him the third - richest person in the world , according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index .
Bloomberg shows that Zuckerberg 's net worth grew by $ 30 billion since March 17 , the day after the San Francisco Bay Area became the first major US region to tell residents to shelter in place due to the coronavirus outbreak .
At the time , the US death toll from COVID-19 had just reached 100 .
Today , more than 95,000 people have died in the US from the coronavirus , with 1.6 million cases reported .
Despite the pandemic 's blow to the economy , Facebook reported better - than - expected numbers for both revenue and users in first - quarter earnings , and added $ 44 billion to its market value the next morning .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Despite the economic fallout from the current global pandemic , Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has added more than $ 30 billion to his wealth in just two months .
The surge in Zuckerberg 's net worth has earned him the title of third - richest person in the world , according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index ranking updated on May 21 .
Zuckerberg is now worth an estimated $ 87.8 billion , rising above billionaires like Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffet and fashion mogul Bernard Arnault .
When Silicon Valley and the Bay Area were first told to shelter in place in mid - March , Zuckerberg was worth a paltry $ 57.5 billion and placed fifth on the list , according to Bloomberg 's estimates .
California remains under lockdown in an effort to contain the coronavirus outbreak , but Facebook 's CEO has nonetheless added billions to his riches .
The surge in Zuckerberg 's rankings is likely due to his company 's growth even during a time when nearly 40 million US workers have been been laid off .
Facebook showed better - than - expected first - quarter earnings reported on April 29 .
The company beat Wall Street expectations in revenue and daily active users , generating $ 17.74 billion and attracting 1.73 billion users in the first three months of 2020 .
The company also reported it had reached 3 billion monthly users across its family of apps , which include Instagram , WhatsApp , and Messenger .
By the next morning , Facebook stock jumped as much as 8 % , netting the company $ 44 billion in market value .
However , Facebook said it experienced a " significant reduction " in advertising demand over the last three weeks of Q1 2020 .
While Q1 earnings for tech companies and social platforms were relatively promising across the board , significant impact to the economy remains to be seen .
Second - quarter results — covering business from April 1 to June 30 — may better represent the affect the coronavirus pandemic has had on businesses .
In the last two months , Facebook has also announced expansions of its business into ecommerce and video chatting .
Facebook recently debuted Messenger Rooms , a video chat service for up to 50 people at the time as services like Zoom and Houseparty see significant bumps in use .
Just this week , Facebook said that the core platform , as well as Instagram , were getting an e - commerce feature called Shops that would allow businesses to add virtual storefronts to their profiles .
Zuckerberg is third on the rankings of the world 's richest behind Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and Microsoft cofounder Bill Gates .
Read the original article on Business Insider

NY Gov. Cuomo reportedly ordered over 4,300 recovering COVID-19 patients to be sent to nursing homes .
2020-05-22 17:09:41 +00:00 .
Darren McGee / Office of Governor Andrew M. Cuomo via AP
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo sent more than 4,300 recovering coronavirus patients to nursing homes across the Empire State , according to the Associated Press .
Cuomo 's executive order on the nursing homes — which was intended to free up hospital beds for the most critical COVID-19 patients — was reversed on May 10 .
The New York State Department of Health responded to the AP 's tally by saying they ca n't verify it , citing the state 's process of " still validating our own comprehensive survey of nursing homes admission and re - admission data . "
" It was the single dumbest decision anyone could make if they wanted to kill people , " one New Yorker who lost his 88 - year - old father to the virus told the AP .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Facing mounting scrutiny over his decision to send recovering coronavirus patients to nursing homes across the Empire State , a new report has a number attached to New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo 's controversial executive order : at least 4,300 .
That tally comes from the Associated Press , not the state .
Cuomo 's executive order from March 25 was intended to ease the burden on hospitals dealing with the most critical COVID-19 patients .
But by sending elderly New Yorkers recovering from COVID-19 to nursing homes , the virus spread among the most vulnerable and has since resulted in 5,800 deaths at New York nursing homes and adult care facilities .
The New York State Department of Health did not offer its own count to the AP and said they could not verify the tally , citing the state 's process of " still validating our own comprehensive survey of nursing homes admission and re - admission data . "
On May 10 , the governor reversed the executive order .
Cuomo continued to defend the decision at his press briefings this week by arguing he was simply following the CDC 's guidelines .
Elsewhere , he has made no bones about breaking from the federal government when it comes to going beyond their guidances in other instances — particularly with New York State on PAUSE , his stay - at - home order .
The governor has also pointed to state statutes mandating that nursing homes move patients from their facilities if they can not receive adequate care on the premises , though the March 25 executive order stated " no resident shall be denied re - admission or admission to the ( nursing home ) solely based [ on a confirmed or suspected COVID-19 diagnosis ] . "
However , other states , such as Louisiana , implemented measures to insulate nursing homes from the spread .
The Pelican State put a 30 day hold on hospitals sending any recovering virus patients to nursing homes — with some exceptions — and saw only 1,000 COVID - related deaths in those facilities .
New York nursing home workers and experts interviewed by the AP described care centers being overrun with incoming COVID patients , and those who lost loved ones to the virus made their anger known .
" It was the single dumbest decision anyone could make if they wanted to kill people , " Daniel Arbeeny told the AP , having lost his 88 - year - old father to the virus after pulling him out of a Brooklyn nursing home that saw more than 50 deaths .
" This is n't rocket science , " Arbeeny said .
" We knew the most vulnerable — the elderly and compromised — are in nursing homes and rehab centers . "
Read the original article on Business Insider

Coronavirus: Self-isolate for 14 days or face £1,000 fine, UK to tell overseas visitors .
2020-05-22 06:56:27 +00:00 .
International travellers could face fines of Â£1,000 if they fail to self - isolate for 14 days after arriving in the UK , the government is expected to announce .
Visitors would be asked to share their contact details under the measures , with health officials performing spot checks to ensure they are complying with the rules .
The policy , which will be introduced early in June , is set to be unveiled by Home Secretary Priti Patel at the daily Downing Street briefing this afternoon .
Road hauliers and medical officials are going to be exempt from the new restrictions , and the common travel area with Ireland will be unaffected .
Despite London and Paris holding discussions about a possible exemption , it is believed that the quarantine measures will apply to arrivals from France .
Travellers from the Republic of Ireland will be exempt , and officials in Australia argue that travellers from there should not face quarantine .
In his address to the nation on 10 May , Prime Minister Boris Johnson had warned it would soon be time to " impose quarantine on people coming into this country by air " as the UK tries to keep coronavirus transmission rates down .
Speculation of a 14 - day self - isolation period sparked an angry response from the already embattled aviation industry , with Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary describing the plan as " idiotic " and " unimplementable " earlier this week .
The trade body Airlines UK had echoed these remarks , warning that mandatory quarantine measures " would effectively kill " international travel to and from the UK .
On Thursday , some airlines had announced tentative plans to start resuming flights .
EasyJet confirmed plans to offer a limited schedule of predominantly domestic flights from the middle of June , with just one international service connecting London Gatwick and the French city of Nice .
Passengers and crew will be required to wear masks in airports and on aircraft , and no food will be sold during the flights .
Ryanair is preparing to restore 40 % of its flights from 1 July , while British Airways is due to make a " meaningful return " to service in the same month .
Meanwhile , the government is set to publish the scientific advice underpinning its decision to reopen schools to some children on 1 June .
Classes are set to resume for pupils in nursery , reception , Year 1 and Year 6 , with unions pressuring the government to present evidence that shows this is safe .
A final decision on whether to go ahead with reopening schools is expected to be taken by the government on or before May 28 after the most up - to - date scientific evidence has been reviewed .
: : Listen to the Daily podcast on Apple Podcasts , Google Podcasts , Spotify , Spreaker
Some councils - predominantly Labour - run local authorities in the North of England - have ruled out a wider reopening from 1 June .
Yesterday , Health Secretary Matt Hancock shared findings of a study suggesting that at least 5 % of people in the UK have now developed COVID-19 antibodies , rising to 17 % in London .
He also confirmed that more than 10 million antibody tests are going to be rolled out from next week , and revealed that certificates are being looked at for people who test positive for antibodies .

Hong Kong developers suffer sell-off as investors worry new security law may provoke protests, capital outflows .
2020-05-22 05:59:16 +00:00 .
Hong Kong property developers are facing the brunt of Hong Kong ’s stock market sell - off amid heightened concerns Beijing ’s proposed national security law for the city could stoke social unrest and erode its appeal as a financial hub .
The city ’s biggest landlords of office towers and shopping malls slumped at mid - day , dragging in the broader market down by the most in two months .
Sun Hung Kai Properties , Hong Kong ’s largest developer and owner of commercial complexes including the iconic IFC towers in Central , plummeted as much as 7.4 per cent to HK$91.10 in morning trading .
Link Reit , which owns 126 shopping centres and offices in Hong Kong , dived 7.6 per cent to HK$62.70 .
Swire Properties , owner of major offices in Admiralty and Quarry Bay , declined 6.6 per cent to HK$18.92 .
The benchmark Hang Seng Index tumbled 4.6 per cent at noon local time , set for the biggest pullback since March 23 .
A sub - index tracking property stocks slid 6.5 per cent , the worst among industry sub - gauges .
“ Investors were afraid property prices will collapse and capital would flow out of the Hong Kong market , ” said Kevin Leung , executive director of investment strategy at Haitong International Securities in Hong Kong .
“ Concerns about a new wave of protests were obviously factored in as well . ”
Chinese legislators on Thursday evening revealed they will discuss a proposed law tailor - made for Hong Kong to ban all seditious activities aimed at toppling the central government .
Anti - government protesters hold a lunchtime rally at the International Finance Centre ( IFC ) in Central in November 2019 .
Photo : Sam Tsang
More
The legislation is controversial because opponents believe this will erode Hong Kong ’s long - cherished rights and freedoms , which could in turn weaken its status as a free economy and an international financial centre .
A previous attempt in 2003 by the Hong Kong government to introduce a national security bill under Article 23 of the city ’s mini - constitution known as the Basic Law led to peaceful protests by half a million people in the city .
There are already calls to revive protest activities in response to the proposed law on LIHKG , an online forum that has become a major organising venue during the protest movement last year .
Many are proposing a march in Causeway Bay , the city ’s core shopping district , on Sunday .
A revival of protests will further strain Hong Kong ’s shattered economy , after months of anti - government street protests and the subsequent Covid-19 pandemic hammered the retail and tourism industries .
Hong Kong ’s landlords have already slashed prime office rents in core business districts by as much as a third , as vacancy climbed to a six - year high in Central .
The city ’s economy shrank 8.9 per cent in the first quarter , its worst performance since records began in 1974 .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Hong Kong developers suffer sell - off as investors worry new security law may provoke protests , capital outflows first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Teen raises over $30,000 for frontline workers .
2020-05-21 20:35:48 +00:00 .
High school junior Dylan Carollo started his radio station when he was 11 years old and has been managing it ever since .
The 17 - year - old wanted to use his platform to help workers on the front line of the coronavirus pandemic
so he came up with an ingenious fundraising idea and raised more than $ 30,000 .
Carollo operates D100 Radio with his cousin and a friend .
The station 's headquarters is located in One World Trade Center in New York City , with Carollo broadcasting from his hometown of Orlando , Florida .
Carollo noticed an uptick in listeners as the coronavirus spread across the United States in March and wanted to come up with a way to leverage the medium to help front line workers .
" We saw all these fundraisers going on and we saw all these frontline workers just struggling across these major hotspots around America , " Carollo told CBS News .
"
And we said , ' There has to be a way that we can get our listeners — to make it interactive , make it fun for them while benefitting these locations around the country . ' "
Dylan Carollo started his radio station D100 Radio when he was just 11 years old .
D100 Radio Listeners could donate a minimum of $ 5 to several organizations on the station 's website to hear a song of their choice on - air .
Some of the participating organizations included the FDNY Foundation in New York , Cedars - Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles and the Henry Ford Health System in Detroit .
Donors were given the option to choose where their money would go within the organizations .
Those who spent additional money received a wristband , T - shirt , or an on - air shoutout .
" We have worked with each of the representative organizations to focus the donation so that donors could select direct funding to frontline workers , vaccine development or other COVID-19 needs , " Carollo said .
Starting now , support our heroes # OnTheFrontlines .
Donations have now begun for major organizations across the nation 's hotspots .
https://t.co/3eauZll1cT pic.twitter.com/RIFi2bypLn — D100 Radio ( @d100 ) April 29 , 2020
The fundraiser began on April 29 and was originally planned as a 24 - hour event , but due to a massive response , Carollo promoted it through May 15 .
" To be honest , it 's been shocking .
We really did not think it was going to become as big as it has and we 're so appreciative of everyone 's support because these frontline workers around the country really need our help , " the teen said .
bostonhopefrontlines-jpeg-credit-home-base.jpg
More Frontline workers with a participating Boston organization pose holding a sign promoting the fundraiser .
D100 Radio
While the station is n't promoting the fundraiser on - air any longer , there is still an option for listeners to donate online .
Between managing the station and attending school , Carollo said he has been working long hours .
He said the workload is worth it knowing he 's helping frontline workers .
" It 's been nonstop for the past six weeks , from morning to night , doing schoolwork in the morning and getting into the fundraiser in the afternoon , " Carollo said .
" But overall I would n't have it any other way . "

Britons flocking to beaches ‘making a mockery’ of coronavirus strategy says Dr Hilary .
2020-05-21 18:47:29 +00:00 .
Scenes of Britons packed onto sunny beaches yesterday “ make a mockery ” of the government ’s test - and - trace coronavirus strategy , TV doctor Hilary Jones has claimed .
The GP also suggested that images of Southend on Sea , Bournemouth and Brighton beaches filled with sunbathers showed why a swift end to lockdown was ill - advised .
He told Good Morning Britain : “ That makes a mockery of test - and - trace right there , does n’t it ?
How , if you test positive for Covid-19 and a contact tracer says , ‘ Where ’ve you been in the last few days ? ’ , and you say , ‘ I was on the beach at Bournemouth or Southend on Sea ’ , amongst those crowds , who do you know who was next to you ?
“ You ca n’t possibly trace those people , and that ’s the problem .
So when people start flouting the social - distancing rules and we go out of lockdown in this kind of way , you ca n’t trace those people .
“ And how many of those people would have the much - vaunted smartphone app on the beach ?
They wo n’t take their phone because they do n’t want it stolen , even if they have a phone and even if the app works as efficiently as they want it to . ”
On Wednesday ministers were forced to admit that the NHS app would not be ready in time for the start of their contact - tracing programme on 1 June – when lockdown rules are set to be loosened further in England .
Human tracers will start working first and the app “ will come later in support ” , junior health minister Lord Bethell said .
Thousands of people descended on UK beaches on Wednesday to soak up the sun with some allegedly driving from Manchester to Essex for a day out , sparking criticism of a widespread failure to maintain social distancing .
“ The more I see of this , the more I fear we ’re in for a second wave , ” said a Southend councillor in a Facebook post .
Matt Dent wrote : ” It ’s people travelling from outside the borough – as far away as Manchester , from what I ’ve heard – who seem to think lockdown is lifted , and Covid-19 is no longer a threat .
“ I ’ve had calls , messages , emails from people I represent who are frustrated that whilst they self - isolate and shield as they ’ve been advised to do , the whole crisis is being prolonged by this sort of foolishness . ”
In Scotland , where tight lockdown restrictions will remain in place until 28 May , Edinburgh ’s Portobello beach was a popular destination for sunbathers breaking the rules .
Ruth Davidson , the MSP , urged people not to throw away all their previous hard work “ just because it ’s a sunny day ” .
The scenes came as research suggested more than half of young adults were no longer adhering strictly to the lockdown .
Experts from University College , London quizzed some 90,000 people and found that the proportion of adults maintaining “ complete ” compliance with government rules had fallen to below 60 per cent , from 70 per cent two weeks ago .
Among younger adults the figure dipped below 50 per cent .
People also have less confidence in the government than previously , researchers discovered .
Additional reporting by Press Association
Read more
Seven charts that show the true scale of the UK coronavirus outbreak ‘ They can blame it for everything ’ : What coronavirus means for Brexit
The Americans who think that coronavirus is a hoax
Do you need a face mask and where can you buy one ?
UK lockdown : Can I see my family and friends under new rules ?

Sales of Previously Owned U.S. Homes Decline by Most Since 2010 .
2020-05-21 14:28:58 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
U.S. sales of previously owned homes fell in April by the most since mid-2010 as the coronavirus hollowed out demand across the country at the start of the key spring selling season .
Closing transactions declined 17.8 % from the prior month , the biggest drop since July 2010 after the expiration of a homebuyer tax credit , to an annualized pace of 4.33 million , according to data from the National Association of Realtors .
The April rate was the slowest since September 2011 and compares with the Bloomberg survey median of 4.22 million rate .
The pandemic has undercut demand in many markets , as tens of millions of Americans lost their jobs in the past few months and remain generally uncertain about future economic conditions .
Despite mortgage rates near record lows , the outbreak put a freeze on showings and open houses as people stay home .
“ The economic lockdowns – occurring from mid - March through April in most states – have temporarily disrupted home sales , ” Lawrence Yun , NAR ’s chief economist , said in a statement .
“ But the listings that are on the market are still attracting buyers and boosting home prices . ”
So far , prices have held up .
Inventory was tight before the pandemic and with homeowners reluctant to move because of health and employment risks , the buyers who have started returning to the market are facing bidding wars in some markets .
The median home price increased 7.4 % from a year earlier to $ 286,800 .
Inventory was down 19.7 % last month from a year ago to 1.47 million units , the lowest on record for any April .
The number of homes for sale would last 4.1 months at the current sales pace .
Anything below five months is seen as a tight market .
Builder Sentiment
Meantime , the residential real estate market may be starting to stabilize .
May data from the National Association of Homebuilders and Wells Fargo showed builder sentiment improved after falling in April by the most in records back to 1985 .
The housing market picked up last year and early this year after a lackluster 2018 .
Existing home sales slumped in all U.S. regions in April , led by a 25 % drop in the West from a month earlier .
Contract closings also fell 17.9 % in the South , 12 % in the Midwest and 16.9 % in the Northeast .
Existing - home sales account for about 90 % of U.S. housing and are calculated when a contract closes .
New - home sales , which make up the remainder , are based on contract signings and will be released Tuesday .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Coronavirus Australia latest: at a glance .
2020-05-21 11:18:18 +00:00 .
Good evening , here are the latest developments on the coronavirus pandemic in Australia .
This is Josh Taylor and it is Thursday 21 May.
Northern Territory declared coronavirus - free
The last Covid-19 patient in the NT has recovered , meaning there are now no confirmed active cases of coronavirus in the NT .
It has been six - and - a - half weeks since a local case in the territory .
States continue spat over borders
National cabinet has n’t met this week , and now there ’s a fight between New South Wales , Western Australia and Queensland over border closures .
The NSW premier , Gladys Berejiklian , is pressuring her Queensland and WA counterparts to reopen state borders , triggering accusations of bullying between leaders and threats of travel restrictions until September .
The WA premier , Mark McGowan , and the Queensland premier , Annastacia Palaszczuk , have blasted Berejiklian for calling on them to lift bans on interstate travel , with the latter saying she would not be “ lectured ” by a state that has recorded more Covid-19 cases .
South Australia
to move to stage 2 restrictions on 5 June South Australia is planning on dropping back down to stage two restrictions from 5 June .
The premier , Steven Marshall , says he understands the wait is frustrating , but the state needs time .
“ We ca n’t just have a one - size - fits - all , ” he said of the staggered approach .
“ I appreciate that it ’s frustrating to people and it ’s much easier to put the restrictions in place than to take them off .
But we are only a few weeks away from being in a very good place in South Australia . ”
Victoria lags behind virtually every other jurisdiction in easing restrictions .
Email : sign up for our daily coronavirus newsletter App : download it and never miss the biggest stories
Social : follow us on Facebook , Instagram or Twitter Podcast : listen to our daily episodes on Apple Podcasts , Spotify or search " Full Story " in your favourite app Federal government considers IR changes for casuals
Industrial relations minister Christian Porter is flagging the government will urgently consult relevant groups about the landmark court decision that offers casual employees working permanent hours the same entitlements as permanent staff .
“ If the cost impact is so great it would cause a lot of small businesses during what is the most challenging time to fold , or go into liquidation , or have to stand people down , that ’s not an outcome in anyone ’s mutual interest , ” he said .
“ We have to talk very quickly to business and employee groups to understand whether or not the financial impact of this decision over the next six , nine , 18 months puts businesses in jeopardy .
If it does , we need to consider ways we can strengthen businesses so we preserve jobs , because if this decision was handed down six months ago it would have been a very , very different scenario .
At the moment the greatest premium for the economy is employment , generating employment and saving jobs . ”
What you need to know : get the most important information from some of our key explainers
Looking for more coverage ?
Read the latest news from across the Guardian ’s global network .
Think a friend would like to get this email ?
Simply forward it to them with this link to the signup page .

Is Donald Trump actually ‘morbidly obese’? .
2020-05-21 10:33:28 +00:00 .
Nancy Pelosi branded Donald Trump “ morbidly obese ” in a scathing interview on Tuesday and the House speaker ’s comments have left many people asking , is he ?
Ms Pelosi made the original remarks on Mr Trump ’s weight and age during an interview with CNN host Anderson Cooper discussing the president ’s controversial decision to take hydroxychloroquine to ward off coronavirus .
“ He ’s our president , and I would rather he not be taking something that has not been approved by the scientists , ” Ms Pelosi said .
She continued : “ Especially in his age group and in his , shall we say , weight group ... morbidly obese , they say . ”
The clip quickly went viral with # PresidentPlump and # TrumpMorbidlyObese trending on twitter CNN reported , leaving many people wondering if her comment ’s ring true .
According to the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) , defines people with “ severe ” obesity as those with a Body Mass Index above 40 .
Those considered to be obese have a BMI above 30 .
So where does the president fall between these measurements ?
Mr Trump ’s BMI was measured as 30.4 during his last health checkup in February 2019 , and with a weight of 243 lb ( 110 kg ) and a height of 6 ft 3ins , he is officially classed within the obese category .
Therefore under these terms , he does not classify as morbidly obese .
However , during his time as president , his health has long been a subject of debate and controversy .
In November 2019 the president ’s health drew attention when he spent an unscheduled two hours in hospital for what the White House said were tests that form part of his annual physical check - up .
Officials assured that the 73 - year - old remained in good health , but political speculators commented that the circumstances seemed a “ little bit strange ” .
Press secretary Stephanie Grisham condemned speculation about the hospital visit as “ irresponsible and dangerous for the country ” .
This incident was not the first time the president ’s health had drawn speculation .
In 2018 , A doctor who wrote a letter commending Mr Trump ’s health claimed the president actually dictated the entire document .
The medical letter gained significant attention after claiming that Mr Trump was the “ healthiest individual ” to ever hold the presidency , Dr Harold Bornstein , who was Mr Trump ’s personal physician for 35 years , later claimed that he did not write the document .
At the time The White House did not comment on the claims that Mr Trump had dictated the note .
Mr Trump is also reported as having a very strange theory surrounding the exercise , reflecting the belief that people are born with a finite amount of energy .
The president ’s viewpoint was highlighted in a feature by The New Yorker , suggesting that he believes moderate over rigorous exercise will make an individual live a longer , healthier life .
He has also previously professed a fondness for according to The New Yorker , but on the other hand , he does not drink alcohol or smoke .
Officials have continually insisted that the president remains in good health , without complaint and full of energy .
“ I am happy to announce the president of the United States is in very good health and I anticipate he will remain so for the duration of his presidency , and beyond , “ Mr Trump ’s personal doctor , Sean Conley , previously said in light of his last health checkup .
Read more
Trump says he takes hydroxychloroquine .
What are the side effects ?
What would happen if Trump got coronavirus ?
Read disputed letter saying Trump in ‘ astonishingly excellent ’ health
Donald Trump thinks exercise makes you die young
Trump makes unscheduled hospital visit for two - hour ‘ medical check - up ’

Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe must be allowed home, insists Downing Street as Iran extends her prison leave .
2020-05-21 10:00:46 +00:00 .
Downing Street today said Iran should allow Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe to return home as her temporary release from prison was extended .
The British - Iranian mother - of - one was freed from the notorious Evin prison on March 17 as part of the Iranian response to the coronavirus pandemic .
Her leave has now been extended until there is a decision on clemency , according to her husband Richard Ratcliffe .
The Prime Minister 's official spokesman told a briefing of journalists this afternoon : " Nazanin should not be in prison at all and that she should be allowed to return to the UK to be with her family .
“ The PM and Foreign Secretary have raised it on a number of occasions .
The Iranians are very clear as to our position . ”
Gabriella sat on her father 's lap as he told reporters its ' lovely ' to have her home .
( Reuters )
More
Mr Ratcliffe said he was " relieved " by the news and they will " sleep more easily tonight than we did last night " .
He told PA : " I think this was a more positive step than we were expecting .
" To be told the furlough has been extended , there 's no timeline to it , it 's extended until a decision is made on clemency , is definitely a good step .
" The fact clemency was mentioned again is a good step .
What that means , who knows ? "
He described the news as " a real step forwards … I do n't think it 's guaranteed one way and I do n't think she thinks it 's guaranteed one way but let 's enjoy the moment . "
He also said their five - year - old daughter Gabriella also " still has hopes that Nazanin will be back for her birthday " later in the summer .
Mrs Zaghari - Ratcliffe was arrested at Tehran 's Imam Khomeini Airport while on holiday visiting her parents in April 2016 .
She was sentenced to five years in prison espionage — a charge she vehemently denies .
She was later afforded diplomatic protection by the UK Government , which argues that she is innocent and that her treatment by Iran failed to meet obligations under international law .
Read more Zaghari - Ratcliffe 's temporary jail release ' extended for second time '

Jacinda Ardern flags four-day working week as way to rebuild New Zealand after Covid-19 .
2020-05-21 09:17:49 +00:00 .
New Zealand is considering introducing a four - day working week to help boost domestic tourism , productivity and employment after the Covid-19 crisis battered the country ’s economy .
On Wednesday Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern flagged the idea of using the shorter working week and additional public holidays as part of a “ nimble ” and creative approach to resuscitating the economy .
New Zealand ’s strict seven - week lockdown has been praised around the world for stopping the spread of Covid-19 in its tracks , with the nation of five million people now having 35 active cases and just one coronavirus patient in hospital .
In total , New Zealand has had 1,153 Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths .
But strict travel bans have meant tourism and hospitality sectors , which play a vital role in the New Zealand economy , have been hard hit .
“ This is an extraordinary time and we should be willing to consider extraordinary ideas , ” Ms Ardern said .
“ I have n't ruled anything in or out . ”
She added that the government should be open minded about the “ range of options ” available to policy makers .
Between March 2018 and March 2019 tourism generated NZ$16.2 billion , 5.8 per cent of the country ’s GDP .
The indirect value added by industries supporting tourism generated an additional NZ$11.2 billion .
Representatives of the industry , which prior to the crisis employed about 230,000 people , met with the prime minister on Tuesday .
After these talks , Ms Ardern said working from home during lockdown had shown how productive employees could be if given more flexibility .
View of Freyberg Beach from Oriental Bay with people enjoying Sunday walks on May 17 , 2020 in Wellington , New Zealand - Getty Images AsiaPac More
“ Think about if that 's something that would work for your workplace , because it certainly would help tourism all around the country , ” she said .
New Zealand launched an ambitious plan to " eliminate " coronavirus using early and aggressive lockdown and travel bans .
As early as April 27 Ms Ardern claimed her country had " won the battle " after four weeks of heavy restrictions .
“ There is no widespread undetected community transmission in New Zealand , " she proclaimed .
" We have won that battle .
But we must remain vigilant if we are to keep it that way . "
On May 11 the country reopened schools and offices , as well as restaurants and cafes following .
Strict social distancing measures in cafes meant Ms Ardern was turned away from dining only to be chased down the road by the owner and offered a seat when one became safely available .
International borders remain closed but with New Zealanders now free to travel within the country , tourism operators and airlines ramping up services to meet rapidly growing demand .
A three - day weekend and extra holidays could provide a significant boost to business .
In 2018 a New Zealand company that moved to a four - day week , while retaining five - day pay , for a two - month trial found the change boosted productivity among its 240 employees .
The firm , Perpetual Guardian , which manages trusts , wills and estates , found that staff spending more time with their families , exercising , cooking and gardening , returned to work enthusiastic and energetic .
Workers said the change motivated them to use new ways to increase productivity while in the office , including reducing meeting times from two hours to 30 minutes .
Other companies around the world have reported similar outcomes .
In August 2019 , Microsoft Japan tested a four - day week and saw productivity increase by about 40 % .
The experiment also saw a 23 % reduction in weekly electricity use in the office and a 59 % decrease in the number of pages printed by employees .

Oil Heads for Sixth Daily Advance After U.S. Stockpile Draws .
2020-05-21 07:39:25 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Oil was headed for its longest run of daily gains in 15 months after a drop in U.S. crude stockpiles added to signs that a market upended by coronavirus lockdowns and a producer price war is rebalancing .
Futures in New York rose for a sixth day past $ 34 a barrel , the longest streak for the front - month contract since February 2019 .
American inventories fell for a second week and there was a record draw in stockpiles from the hub at Cushing , Oklahoma , Energy Information Administration data showed .
The big drop at Cushing , the delivery point for West Texas Intermediate futures , shows the risks of a supply glut are easing .
In another sign traders are more sanguine about the chance of storage space running out , the so - called WTI June / July cash roll traded at 30 cents on Wednesday , the first time it ’s been above zero since December , according to Bloomberg data .
Crude has risen more than 80 % this month as production cuts have kicked in and demand has started to return .
However , there ’s still a long way to get back to pre - virus levels of consumption and there ’s also a risk that a sharp jump in prices for physical cargoes encourages output to come back too early
“ There ’s growing optimism that you ’re going to see a continued pick - up in oil demand , and that ’s heavily reflected in prices now , ” said Edward Moya , a senior market analyst at OANDA .
“ However , higher prices are going to trigger some non - compliance ” with output cuts and WTI is likely to trade in a $ 25 to $ 35 a barrel range over the next two months , he said .
WTI for July delivery rose 2.2 % to $ 34.24 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange as of 7:24 a.m. in London after closing up 4.8 % at the highest level since March 10 .
Brent for July settlement added 2 % to $ 36.45 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange .
A surprise increase in U.S. gasoline stockpiles reflected underlying weakness in the world ’s largest economy .
Meanwhile , oil demand in India , the world ’s third - biggest consumer , could take until the end of 2020 to get close to full recovery , according to executives at the country ’s state - owned fuel retailers .
U.S. crude stockpiles fell by 4.98 million barrels , the most since December , in the week through May 15 , the EIA data showed .
Inventories at Cushing dropped by 5.59 million barrels , or almost 9 % , while gasoline stocks rose by 2.83 million barrels .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

No Clear Sign That Worst Is Over for Global Trade, Asian Data Shows .
2020-05-21 06:13:31 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Asian data laid bare the extent of damage to global trade with no clear sign that the worst is over even as the world takes tentative steps toward reopening .
An early trade report from South Korea , a bellwether for global commerce , showed exports may be set to drop more than 20 % in May for a second month .
Meanwhile , Japan ’s overseas shipments also plunged by more than a fifth in April and a purchasing managers index showed manufacturing activity weakening further in May.
The data showed plunging exports of cars and auto parts to be the biggest drag on trade as the pandemic hobbles vehicle demand in the U.S. and Europe .
Still , the value of semiconductor shipments from both Japan and Korea increased , and falls in exports to China moderated .
” We have yet to confirm the bottom with economic data , but the global economy is heading for bottoming out with lockdowns being lifted , ” said economist Masaki Kuwahara at Nomura Securities in Tokyo .
“ Economic activity is resuming bit by bit . ”
To be sure , Thursday ’s data showed Japan ’s PMI for the services sector ticking up , albeit from a record low , with government last week lifting its state of emergency for most of the country ’s rural prefectures , where there have been few new infections in recent days .
“ The dynamics in the economy are clearly evolving , ” said economist Joe Hayes at IHS Markit , which compiles the au Jibun Bank Japan PMI survey .
“ As Japan eases the state of emergency measures , the services economy can begin its gradual recovery . ”
Japanese Manufacturing PMI Drops Further on Virus Hit
But manufacturing and trade data from the region suggests the worst is not over for the global slump .
The au Jibun Bank Japan purchasing managers index for manufacturing fell to 38.4 in May , indicating the strongest contraction of activity in the factory sector since March 2009 .
A separate report from Japan showed exports fell about 22 % in April , with vehicle shipments dropping by half .
Japan ’s Exports Fall in April Most Since 2009
Amid Coronavirus Shock
Economist Taro Saito at NLI Research Institute in Tokyo said the trade data confirms Japan ’s economy is rapidly worsening and he sees the trade slump deepening for another month or two before picking up .
“ Make no mistake , ” he said .
“ It will take a long while to get back to where we were before the virus . ”
One market showing signs of recovery is China , where the virus ’s earliest outbreak has been contained and factories are getting back to work .
Thursday ’s reports showed both Japanese and South Korean exports to China falling far less than shipments to other key markets , but there ’s a risk that collapsing global demand could squash China ’s rebound .
Korea Early Exports Data Signal Dismal Drop for Global Trade
South Korea ’s advanced trade report showed the overall trade slump deepening in May , even as semiconductor sales rose and shipments to China dropped less than 2 % to China .
The value of South Korea ’s exports fell 20 % in the first 20 days of this month .
Declines in average daily shipments widened from 16.8 % in April .
“ Double - digit exports decline will last for at least a couple more months , ” said So Jaeyong , an economist at Shinhan Bank .
“ The U.S. restarting its economy after China may provide a floor to the trade slump , but there are multiple risks ahead , including a wider second wave of infections . ”
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Merkel warns against trade barriers in face of coronavirus recession .
2020-05-20 23:18:34 +00:00 .
BERLIN — Countries should not resort to renationalization and protectionism in response to a " deep global recession " caused by the coronavirus crisis , German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Wednesday .
" It was ... clear that multilateralism faced a major challenge even before the pandemic , and this challenge has not become smaller , " said Merkel , two days after she put forward a Franco - German plan for a € 500 billion EU recovery fund .
Merkel was speaking after a videoconference with the heads of the International Labour Organization , the International Monetary Fund , the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development , the World Bank and the World Trade Organization at which they discussed the economic response to the crisis .
" The answer to the pandemic can certainly not be to renationalize all international supply chains now ; then everyone would pay a very high price , " Merkel said .
Asked if she had spoken to Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte or Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz since Monday ’s announcement , Merkel said she had not .
Kurz declared Tuesday that the countries — who advocate lower EU spending and tight fiscal discipline — will present their own counter proposal .
" We are now in the phase of waiting for the proposal from the Commission , " Merkel said .
The European Commission is set to lay out its draft recovery plan next Wednesday , May 27 .

U.S. bank regulator chief to depart, with Coinbase’s former top lawyer set to serve in acting capacity .
2020-05-20 22:32:30 +00:00 .
Joseph Otting is slated to step down from his post as Comptroller of the Currency later this month , according to a new report from the Wall Street Journal .
Brian Brooks , first deputy comptroller and COO of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) — a former chief legal officer at Coinbase — will then take up the role as Acting Comptroller until U.S. President Donald Trump nominates a permanent fixture , according to Politico .
Otting took up the role in 2017 after a member of President Trump 's transition team , Keith Noreika , served as acting comptroller .
The president nominated Otting only one month after Noreika entered the post , but it took another five months before the Senate confirmed Otting and he formally entered the office .
Now , Brooks is slated to hold the seat of acting comptroller just weeks after becoming First Deputy .
He left his role at Coinbase to join his former colleague U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin , who appointed him to the new role at the start of April .
Brooks was previously the vice - chairman of OneWest Bank , which Mnuchin founded .
During his short time with the OCC , Brooks has already spoken about the merits of crypto and the possibility of federal licensing over the state licensing system .
The OCC operates under the Department of the Treasury as a bureau focused on regulating national banks .
Otting 's departure comes after an attempt to overhaul rules of the Community Reinvestment Act to increase investments in lower - income communities .
The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 sought to keep banks from withholding loans from lower - income communities , a practice known as " redlining . "
Otting 's work attempts to define further the types of investments in these communities for which banks could be legally credited – a distinction that matters since it can affect expansion for banks that fail to do their part .
Otting sought to complete the work before his departure , advocating for the plan amid the coronavirus pandemic at a May 12 hearing .
© 2020
The Block Crypto , Inc.
All Rights Reserved .
This article is provided for informational purposes only .
It is not offered or intended to be used as legal , tax , investment , financial , or other advice .

Nurse Shares COVID-19 Before-and-After Photos to Prove It's Not Just the 'Sick and Elderly' at Risk .
2020-05-20 21:36:33 +00:00 .
A previously healthy nurse in San Francisco shared before and after photos on Instagram showing just how much of an impact COVID-19 can have on the body — and to prove the coronavirus poses a serious risk to more than just the “ sick and elderly . ”
Mike Schultz had been traveling earlier in March with his boyfriend , before states started putting stricter COVID-19 restrictions in place .
Schultz told BuzzFeed News he was admitted to the hospital on March 16 after his symptoms went from mild to a fever of 103 ° F .
He was put on oxygen right away and then prepared for intubation .
He was intubated for more than four weeks , he said .
Get more on COVID-19 : Sign up for our daily coronavirus newsletter .
Once Schultz was off the ventilator , he was still exhausted and his lung capacity was greatly reduced .
He said holding his cellphone felt heavy and his hands shook while trying to type .
Related:​ Download
The Mighty app to connect in real time with people who can relate to what you 're going through .
He shared before - and - after photos to illustrate just how serious COVID-19 can be .
The photo on the right was taken about a month before he was hospitalized , and the one on the left in a recovery ward .
He told BuzzFeed just standing up to take the photo took a lot of effort .
Mike Schultz 's post about COVID-19
More Related:​ 5 Creative Ways Establishments Are Helping Visitors Physical Distance I wanted to show everyone how badly being sedated for 6 weeks on a ventilator or intubated can be .
Amongst other things , covid19 reduced my lung capacity with pneumonia .
— Mike Schultz
Early on in the outbreak , many people dismissed COVID-19 as a mostly harmless virus .
Most people believed if they got it , it would be pretty mild and easy to recover from — “ only ” the eldery and those with pre - existing conditions were at risk .
As Schultz illustrated in his post , however , COVID-19 can affect anyone :
Schultz spent weeks in the hospital and he still has a ways to go on his recovery journey .
He wanted to share the lasting impact COVID-19 can have on people who are otherwise considered healthy to encourage others to take the virus seriously .
Related:​ Why Quarantine Feels Familiar to a Mama Raising Medically Fragile Babies
“ I thought I was young enough for it not to affect me , and I know a lot of people think that , ” Schultz said .
“ I wanted to show it can happen to anyone .
It does n’t matter if you ’re young or old , have preexisting conditions or not .
It can affect you . ”
Add your voice : Join The Mighty ’s Coronavirus group by downloading our app or comment below .
Read more stories like this on The Mighty : Why Many More People May Be Living With ME / CFS After COVID-19 9 Honest Photos You Might Relate to If You 're Too Depressed to Clean During COVID-19
How I Feel About
Trump
Taking the Lupus Medication I Need to ' Prevent ' COVID-19
Dear Nancy Pelosi , Not Even Trump Deserves to Be Fat Shamed

Child deportations surge amid pandemic, but plans to speed them up date to 2017 .
2020-05-20 20:31:43 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration has expedited the deportation of child migrants during the coronavirus pandemic , citing public health , but documents obtained by NBC News show that as far back as 2017 , now – DHS Acting Secretary Chad Wolf sought to expedite child deportations in order to discourage Central American asylum seekers .
Recent reports from immigration lawyers , DHS officials and congressional staff have indicated a rise in the number of rapid deportations of unaccompanied migrant children .
Previously , children who arrived in the U.S. without a parent or legal guardian were given protections under anti - trafficking laws , which included the right to claim asylum and to be placed in the custody of the Department of Health and Human Services until they could be placed with a guardian .
The New York Times recently reported that more than 900 children have been deported under a new policy that sends children back to their home countries before they have had a chance to coordinate plans with a guardian at home or claim asylum in the U.S ..
Many of those children , according to the Times , were in the U.S. and living in HHS custody or with family members before the pandemic began .
DHS has said the deportations are justified under Title 42 , which allows restrictions on immigration to slow the spread of disease .
But a 2017 policy proposal by Wolf shows that the agency has long sought the ability to deport children more quickly , long before the threat of a virus gave it cover to do so .
The documents were first obtained by Sen. Jeff Merkley , D.-Ore . , and then shared with NBC News .
Wolf , who was then chief of staff to DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen , sent a collection of policy ideas to the Justice Department , which included plans to reclassify unaccompanied migrant children as accompanied once they had been placed in the care of a parent or sponsor .
The designation as an unaccompanied child “ is recognized throughout the minor ’s immigration proceeding , despite the minor ’s reunification with parents .
This affords the minors the protections under the Trafficking in Victims Protection Reauthorization Act ( TVPRA ) , which allows them to avoid expedited removal [ and ] to seek asylum , ” Wolf said in the internal policy proposal memo .
In 2019 , shortly before she was removed as secretary , Nielsen wrote a letter to Congress asking for a change in law to allow DHS to remove children more quickly .
Congress did not authorize such a move .
“ DHS seeks authority to return [ unaccompanied children ] to their families and a safe and orderly manner if they have no legal right to stay , ” Nielsen said in a March 2019 letter to Congress , as the number of children crossing the border was on the rise .
Immigration attorneys say many of the deported children do not have families or plans in place for their care when they find themselves abruptly returned by plane to their home countries .
A DHS spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment .

Gold Up on Back of Disappointing COVID-19 Vaccine Report .
2020-05-20 11:59:15 +00:00 .
By Gina Lee Investing.com – Gold was up on Wednesday morning after hopes of a potential vaccine for the COVID-19 virus were dashed on Tuesday .
Vaccine experts poured cold water on U.S. drug maker Moderna ’s Monday announcement that its potential C OVID-19 vaccine had generated an immune response in all 45 phase one trial participants after they released a report on Tuesday stating that there was insufficient evident to back the claims .
Gold futures were up 0.44 % at $ 1753.20 by 12 : 57AM ET ( 5:57 AM GMT ) .
Investors turned to the safe - haven yellow metal after deflated hopes for a COVID-19 vaccine soured risk sentiment .
Elsewhere in the United States , both Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell testified before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday , with both officials pressed on the amount of funding that has been released through the programs already in operation .
In response , Powell restated his remarks from the end of April , saying that “ this is the time to use the great fiscal power of the U.S.
It ’s all ahead of us .
The amount that has gone out so far , in the context of the U.S. economy , is fairly modest . ”
He also reiterated the Fed was “ committed to using our full range of tools to support the economy in this challenging time even as we recognize that these actions are only a part of a broader public - sector response . ”
“ What the Fed does in the next few months will be pretty important , and certainly Powell did indicate that the rates would remain near zero for foreseeable future , ” ANZ analyst Daniel Hynes told CNBC .
Investors will now await the Federal Open Market Committee ’s April 28 - 29 policy meeting minutes due later in the day .
Gold has been buoyed by the Fed keeping its interest rates near zero , with lower interest rates reducing the opportunity cost of holding gold .
Meanwhile , Powell did not state whether the tools alluded to in his testimony included negative rates .
Related Articles
Global green energy growth to fall for first time in 20 years : IEA Malaysia 's Petronas inks first LNG virtual deal
Oil Up After Production Cuts Finally Pay Dividends But Demand Concerns Continue

Hong Kong No Longer in Top Three IPO Venues .
2020-05-20 09:01:51 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Hong Kong is not part of the top three listing venues globally for the first time in six years , as a slow start to 2020 has weighed on initial public offering activity .
Companies have raised only $ 3.2 billion through IPOs in the financial hub this year , putting it in fifth place behind exchanges in mainland China and New York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
Shanghai leads the pack , with almost $ 14 billion of IPO proceeds , thanks to Beijing - Shanghai High Speed Railway Co. ’s $ 4.3 billion float in January .
Some $ 11.6 billion was raised through new offerings on the New York Stock Exchange and $ 8.1 billion on the Nasdaq , while Shenzhen sits in fourth place with $ 3.4 billion .
Hong Kong was the world ’s top listing venue last year , with more than $ 40 billion raised .
Since 2015 , it has always been No . 1 , except in 2017 , when it ranked third with $ 16 billion , the data show .
To be sure , there is still more than half the year to go and the city may well catch up with a spate of larger deals lining up , including second listings by JD.com Inc. and NetEase Inc.
IPO activity slowed to a trickle after the Lunar New Year holidays at the end of January , as the coronavirus outbreak rattled markets and issuers opted to stay on the sidelines .
The biggest deal of 2020 has raised just $ 383 million -- a billion - dollar plus IPO had already come to the market by this time last year .
This year ’s haul is down 36 % from the same period last year .
“ Investors are more risk averse and do n’t want to place big bets unless they already understand a company well , ” said Edward Au , Deloitte ’s co - leader of the national public offering group .
Still , the companies that have listed since March have proved incredibly popular with investors , who have rushed to back health - care and biotech names amid the coronavirus pandemic .
Read More : Another H.K. Biotech IPO , Another Blowout Deal UPCOMING LISTINGS : Dada Nexus Ltd.
Nasdaq exchangeSize about $ 500mFiled May 12Goldman Sachs , Bank of America , JefferiesLegend Biotech Corp.
Nasdaq exchangeFiled May 13Morgan Stanley , JPMorgan , JefferiesYeahka Ltd.
Hong Kong stock exchangeSize up to $ 212mPricing May 25 , trading June 1CLSA , Nomura ,
ABC InternationalKintor Pharmaceutical Ltd.
Hong Kong stock exchangeSize $ 240mListing May 22Huatai , UBS ,
CICCEbang International Holdings Inc.
New YorkSize $ 100mFiled April 25AMTD , Loop Capital Markets
More ECM situations we are following : Tencent - backed Yeahka Ltd. is offering 98.7 million shares at HK$12.64 - HK$16.64 each in its Hong Kong initial public offering , according to a prospectus filed to the stock exchange .
See also : Asia ECM Weekly AgendaIPO dataU.S.
ECM WatchEU ECM WatchTo receive the ECM Watch in your inbox daily , click the “ subscribe ” button at the top of this article .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Almost a third of patients to die with coronavirus had diabetes, NHS England data shows .
2020-05-20 07:03:37 +00:00 .
Almost a third of people who have died after testing positive for coronavirus in English hospitals had diabetes , new NHS England data has shown .
This is higher than previously thought , as health service data released last week suggested 26 per cent of Covid-19 victims in English hospitals had the condition .
The new figures show that overall , 7,466 of coronavirus patients who have died in hospitals in England had type 2 diabetes .
A further 365 who died had type 1 diabetes .
This is approximately 32 per cent of the 24,739 Covid-19 deaths recorded in English hospitals up to May 17 .
Figures released on May 14 suggested that 5,873 diabetes patients had died with Covid-19 out of 22,332 at that time .
Lead author of the study , Professor Jonathan Valabhji called the finding " worrying news " and said it " shows the extent of the risk of coronavirus for people with diabetes " .
He added : " Importantly it also shows that higher blood glucose levels and obesity further increase the risk in both types of diabetes . "
Charity Diabetes UK are calling on the Government to ensure that patients are kept safe at work and can access other support systems such as supermarket delivery slots and emotional support .
The organisation 's director of policy Bridget Turner said : " We know people with diabetes will want to know what they can do to keep themselves safe .
" The most important thing anyone with diabetes can do is try their best to manage their condition carefully , keeping their blood sugar in range as much as possible .
" All people with diabetes should also follow stringent social distancing measures to reduce their chances of catching the virus altogether . "
According to the data released last week , there were more recorded deaths of diabetes patients than those with other comorbidities .
Some 4,048 ( 18 per cent ) of those who died in hospitals in England since March 31 had dementia and 3,254 ( 15 per cent ) were reported to have chronic pulmonary disease , while 1,549 patients had asthma .
NHS England are offering video consultations and online appointments , as well as routine discussions with GPs , so that diabetes care can continue throughout the pandemic .
They have also set up a dedicated helpline with Diabetes UK to help people who use insulin .
Read more
People urged to watch diet to reduce risk of diabetes during pandemic
Virus death toll tops 35,000 as warning issued over economic recovery

Australian Barley Cargo Turns Away From China Amid Tensions .
2020-05-20 03:39:04 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
A vessel laden with Australian barley has swung away from China after the Asian country slapped anti - dumping duties on imports of the grain for five years amid escalating bilateral tensions .
Dry bulk carrier African Quail has changed its destination from Machong port in southern China to Port of Jebel Ali in United Arab Emirates after loading barley from Port Lincoln in southern Australia this month , according to data from broker and adviser IKON Commodities and Bloomberg ship - tracking information .
It was one of five vessels carrying the grain with original destinations in China , the data show .
Australia ’s biggest barley customer is imposing an anti - dumping duty of 73.6 % and an anti - subsidy duty of 6.9 % , effective from May 19 , according to China ’s Ministry of Commerce .
Industry groups are warning the measures will gut an export market worth A$ 1.4 billion ( $ 916 million ) in 2017 .
Australia , which has fueled tensions with China by calling for an independent investigation into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic and into wildlife wet markets , has indicated it may appeal to the World Trade Organization .
Now the country ’s exports of wine , seafood , oatmeal , fruit and dairy are in danger of being targeted if China opts for more escalation , according to people familiar with the matter .
The scale of the barley tariffs is n’t a surprise , but the five - year duration was “ longer than I or a number of trade participants would have expected , ” said Andrew Whitelaw , senior market analyst at Mecardo .
The immediate concern is for shipments already heading to China , said Ole Houe , director at IKON .
“ There ’s unlikely to be a lot of immediate takers so those boats will likely have to be sold at large discounts , ” he said .
There ’s a batch of grain sold but not shipped , which will have to be resold at a discount .
“ For next year and for the crop we ’re planting at the moment , the risk is also very real , but the market has already dropped to levels that make us competitive in the general feed grains market , ” he said .
Australia should be able to export its barley to other markets , as its displacement as a supplier to China will be significant to global trade , said Tobin Gorey , Commonwealth Bank of Australia agricultural commodities strategist .
China will have to turn to other exporters , including those in the EU and Black Sea , Canada and Argentina , for malting barley used in beer .
“ As China ’s brewers are forced to bid harder for other sources of barley , Australian barley will find a home with those out bid by China , ” he said .
( Updates map link and adds story touts )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Princess Eugenie's father-in-law praises NHS after nine week coronavirus battle .
2020-05-20 00:32:57 +00:00 .
Princess Eugenie ’s father - in - law last night said he owed his life to the NHS after recovering from a serious case of coronavirus which left him in intensive care .
George Brooksbank , 71 , whose son Jack married the Queen ’s granddaughter in 2018 , fell ill in mid - March after a trip to France and ended up being in hospital for nine weeks .
He was on a ventilator for five weeks at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London and his family was told to “ prepare for the worst ” .
But after a tracheotomy , his condition gradually improved and he was moved to a ward at the Royal Brompton Hospital which specialised in heart and lung conditions in people recovering from Covid-19 .
He then underwent a further period of rehabilitation at St Mary ’s in Roehampton .
Princess Eugenie married Jack Brooksbank in St George 's Chapel , Windsor Castle on October 12 , 2018 - PA / Steve Parsons
More
“ The point I really want to get across is that I think the NHS is absolutely magnificent , ” said Mr Brooksbank , a retired chartered accountant and company director who lives with his wife Nicola in Wandsworth , south London .
‘ The way I was treated was incredible .
Nothing was too much trouble and at no point did I get a sense of a shortage of doctors or nurses or any impression that the service was in any way overwhelmed .
“ There was always somebody at hand .
I want to offer profound thanks to everyone who was involved .
It was a real eye - opener for somebody who has not been in hospital before for any length of time .
“ I certainly owe them my life . ’
Mr Brooksbank said he now felt “ absolutely fine , ” attributing his recovery to the several weeks of recuperation in hospital .
“ I ’m walking around at the moment on one stick and I hope to get free of that next week .
My breathing is back to normal and I count myself extremely lucky .
My thoughts now are with those still battling this disease and the NHS staff risking their own lives to help them . ”
Mrs Brooksbank , 66 , who also contracted the disease but is recovering at home without hospital treatment , echoed her husband ’s tribute to the NHS for saving his life .
“ Without doubt , they saved him , and we could not be more grateful , ” she said .
“ We were not able to see him throughout his treatment and more than once we were told to expect the worst . ”

'I'm in good company': Jacinda Ardern hits back after more flak over her hair .
2020-05-20 00:30:49 +00:00 .
New Zealand ’s Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has hit back at more jabs about her hair , while her approval rating soars .
Over the weekend , Ms Ardern ’s fiancé tweeted about how he dyed the PM ’s hair and how he helped cut their daughter ’s hair .
“ Helped dye partner ’s hair and gave daughter a haircut with scissors I bought at supermarket for $ 6 , ” Clarke Gayford tweeted .
“ Remarkably both parties still talking to me . ”
New Zealand 's Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was asked about her hair during an interview .
Source : Facebook / The AM Show
More
Following the tweet , during a TV interview where Ms Ardern was forced to school a presenter after he asked if she was going grey .
“ That ’s not a polite question to ask , I was about to say a lady , but anyone , actually , ” Ms Ardern told The AM Show ’s Ryan Bridge , smiling .
Throughout the week , Ms Ardern has been asked about her hair and dodged subtle jabs from the opposition , with the opposition leader subtly making light of it .
“ There 's no hair dye , ” Mr Simon Bridges said after visiting the barber , according to various New Zealand media outlets .
“ Just saying . ”
Ms Ardern was then asked about the comment while in Rotorua on Tuesday , to discuss how New Zealand ’s tourism industry will recover following the coronavirus pandemic .
“ Probably I 'm not alone in being someone in New Zealand who dyes their hair , so I think I 'm in fairly good company , ” she said .
NZ PM praised around the world
While her hair has become a focal point , Ms Ardern ’s response to the coronavirus pandemic has been praised globally .
“ Her messages are clear , consistent , and somehow simultaneously sobering and soothing , ” The Atlantic wrote of Ms Ardern .
“ And her approach is n’t just resonating with her people on an emotional level .
It is also working remarkably well . ”
It ’s not just foreign outlets who have been impressed by the 39 - year - old leader .
A Newshub - Reid Research Party Standings poll found Ms Ardern ’s Labor Government is up by 14 points , with 56.5 per cent .
Meanwhile , the opposition leader , Mr Bridges , may not need hair dye , but he has been described as “ politically a dead man walking ” , as his National party slumped to a 30.6 per cent .
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has been praised for her response to the coronavirus .
Source : AP
More
That figure is 13 points lower than National 's last poll return and its result at the 2017 election , meaning roughly one in every three National voters has signalled they 'll vote elsewhere in the September 19 election .
Ardern ’s popularity wo n’t last , opposition says Mr Bridges pointed out that incumbents around the world had enjoyed poll bumps in the wake of COVID-19 , and Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern 's poll supremacy would n't last .
" You go to Trump .
You go to Boris .
You go to anywhere in Australia , " he said .
" In lockdown we 've had wall - to - wall coverage of the government and the health aspects .
" But that 's not an election campaign ( when ) we 're going to to see things turn very much from the health response to the economic .
" National has the team , the track record and the plan under me to get New Zealand working again . "
Others disagree .
Newshub political editor Tova O'Brien described Mr Bridges ' leadership as over , declaring him " politically a dead man walking " .
-With AAP .
Do you have a story tip ?
Email :
newsroomau@yahoonews.com .
You can also follow us on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play .

Charles to present Classic FM show about his love of classical music .
2020-05-19 21:50:09 +00:00 .
The Prince of Wales is to appear on two Classic FM radio programmes about his love of classical music , taking to the airwaves to present one of them .
Heir to the throne Charles has been interviewed by Alan Titchmarsh about his love of watching live performances and how the livelihoods of orchestras and performers have been affected during the coronavirus pandemic .
The interview will be broadcast on Monday May 25 in a two - hour programme in which the prince will share some of his favourite pieces , performed by his musical patronages .
The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall listening to an orchestra play in Austria ( John Stillwell / PA )
More
Charles will also go solo to present a two - hour show on Tuesday May 26 , selecting more of his favoured classical pieces .
He will give his personal reflections on works such as both of Frederic Chopin ’s piano concertos , the Four Last Songs of Richard Strauss , and Julius Benedict ’s Piano Concerto in E - flat .
He will also feature recordings from two of the Duchess of Cornwall ’s musical patronages – the National Youth Orchestra and the London Chamber Orchestra .
Classic FM presenter Titchmarsh said : “ It is always a privilege to spend time in the company of His Royal Highness and none more so than when it involves our mutual enjoyment of classical music . ”
The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall with presenters Myleene Klass and Alan Titchmarsh at Classic FM ’s 25th anniversary recital in 2017 ( Andrew Milligan / PA )
More
He added : “ It is typically thoughtful of him to choose to highlight the plight of his many musical patronages , alongside the difficulties that all musicians face , during an unprecedented period when enjoyment of live music has been curtailed .
“ I am looking forward to welcoming him to Classic FM . ”
The prince is patron of the Philharmonia Orchestra , the Scottish Chamber Orchestra , the Monteverdi and Bach Choirs , the Royal Opera House and Welsh National Opera .
Other music the prince will select will include Richard Wagner ’s Siegfried Idyll , choruses from the St Matthew Passion by Bach and Hubert Parry ’s Bridal March Of The Birds from The Birds Of Aristophanes .
Phil Noyce , Classic FM ’s managing editor , said : “ His Royal Highness shares our vision of bringing classical music to as wide an audience as possible .
“ We are acutely aware of the challenges the music world is facing at the moment and we are honoured to collaborate with the Prince of Wales – a lifetime supporter and champion of the arts – for these two special programmes . ”
With the country in lockdown and Charles staying at his Birkhall residence , and Titchmarsh also at home , the interview was recorded by video conference call .
A Royal Appointment will be broadcast on Monday May 25 and Tuesday May 26 , from 8 pm to 10 pm , on Classic FM – available across the UK on 100 - 102 FM , DAB digital radio and TV , at ClassicFM.com and on Global Player .

Nick Cordero: Broadway star’s wife Amanda Kloots shares ‘good news’ amid coronavirus battle .
2020-05-19 20:19:31 +00:00 .
Amanda Kloots , the wife of Broadway star Nick Cordero , has shared a positive update on the Tony Award winner ’s recovery from coronavirus .
In a post shared on her Instagram Story on Monday ( 18 May ) , Kloots explained that Cordero was showing signs of improvement since first waking up from his coronavirus - induced coma last week .
“ So guys , I just got off the phone with the doctor , and there was a little bit of good news , ” she said .
“ They pulled out less secretions today from Nick ’s lungs than the last time they cleaned him out .
So , that is great news , just because any time they go in there and there ’s less than before , it ’s good .
“ So , I ’m gon na take that , and I ’m gon na run with it tonight , and I ’m gon na celebrate that small win , ” she continued .
Cordero was admitted to hospital on 30 March after being diagnosed with pneumonia , testing positive for coronavirus and being put on a ventilator just two days later .
The actor then faced a number of complications , including septic shock and two “ mini strokes ” .
After being fitted with a temporary pacemaker , he suffered from blood clotting which meant his right leg had to be amputated .
Last week Kloots , who has a 10 - month - old son with the stage performer , confirmed that Cordero had awoken from his coma and was responsive but very weak .

Man who downplayed virus warns others after getting sick .
2020-05-19 20:07:47 +00:00 .
A Florida man who initially downplayed the coronavirus crisis is now warning others to take it seriously after he and his wife were hospitalized with the virus .
Brian Hitchens documented his battle with the coronavirus on Facebook after admitting he had previously considered it a " fake crisis " that was " blown out of proportion . "
The rideshare driver said in early April that he was observing safety guidelines during the pandemic but was n't afraid of the virus itself .
" I 'm honoring what our government says to do during this epidemic but I do not fear this virus because I know that my God is bigger than this Virus will ever be , " he wrote .
In another post on May 12 , he reflected on how his life and views about the pandemic started to change soon after .
" Many people still think that the Coronavirus is a fake crisis which at one time I did too and not that I thought it was n't a real virus going around but at one time I felt that it was blown out of proportion and it was n't that serious , " he wrote .
" I still thought it was being blown out of proportion until about 4 and 1/2 weeks ago when I started to feel sick . "
He developed symptoms and stayed home — and then his wife Erin fell ill , too .
After a few days , he wrote , their condition started to get worse .
Hitchens said he had " had just enough energy " to drive them to Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center , where they were both taken to the ICU .
" I started feeling better within a few days but my wife got worse to the point where they sedated her and put her on the ventilator , " he wrote .
" As of today [ May 12 ] my wife is still sedated and on the ventilator with no signs of improving . "
Many people still think that the Coronavirus is a fake crisis which at one time I did too and not that I thought it wasn ...
Posted by Brian Lee Hitchens on Tuesday , May 12 , 2020
According to the post , his wife of eight years suffered from different physical ailments and doctors told him they were having a tough time improving her condition .
" I have come to accept that my wife may pass away ...
but I also do believe in miracles
and I 'm holding on to the chance that she may get healed , " he wrote .
In two more posts over the next few days , he thanked the doctors and nurses " that are working so hard to try and help my wife get better " and asked people to " keep praying for her . "
Hitchens also reflected on not wearing a mask early on during the coronavirus pandemic and urged others to not follow his example .
" Looking back I should have wore a mask in the beginning but I did n't and perhaps I 'm paying the price for it now , " he said .
" So just think about what I said and if you have to go out please use wisdom and do n't be foolish like I was so the same
so the same thing wo n't happen to you like it happened to me and my wife . "
On Monday , he posted an update addressed to " all you haters out there " who had sent him " nasty messages " — " I AM NEGATIVE " ! "
PRAISE THE LORD ! "
he wrote .
Arthritis : Breaking down misconceptions
Trump pushes for reopening as Senate holds hearing on CARES Act economic stimulus programs
Arrests as anti - lockdown protests hit Europe

Coronavirus: Isle of Man shopper jailed for failing to self-isolate after wife showed symptoms .
2020-05-19 08:19:51 +00:00 .
A 62 - year - old on the Isle of Man has been jailed for failing to self - isolate after his wife reported showing symptoms of coronavirus .
Paul Tipping , of Onchan , visited a pharmacy and a supermarket on 14 May to buy toothpaste and cigarettes .
Tipping , a retired teacher , admitted failing to comply with the self - governing British crown dependency 's strict measures to self - isolate , which were announced in March .
He was sentenced to four weeks in prison by magistrates at Douglas Courthouse , according to the BBC .
Tipping 's wife reported showing symptoms on 11 May but subsequently tested negative for the virus .
Tipping told magistrates at Douglas Courthouse , pictured , that the shopping trip was for ' necessary ' items and that there was ' no one else ' to go for him .
( Getty )
More
He told the court the shopping trip was for " necessary " items and that there was " no one else " to go for him .
The court heard that Tipping had previously received a warning for breaching the emergency laws , followed by a fixed penalty notice .
The Isle of Man announced tight quarantine measures to prevent the illness spreading in March .
Since 18 March , anyone arriving on the island is subject to 14 days of self - isolation even if they do not have symptoms of the virus .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of COVID-19 cases in your local area 6 charts and maps that explain how COVID-19 is spreading
For those already on the island , anyone with symptoms or who is living with someone who has symptoms must self - isolate for two weeks .
Chief minister Howard Quayle said at the time that anyone breaching the quarantine regulations could face a fine of up to £ 10,000 or three months in jail .
The Isle of Man has a population of 85,000 with an average age of 44.4 , compared with 40.5 in the UK .
A spokesperson from the Isle of Man police told Yahoo News : " Our role is to help police this health emergency .
" We appreciate the effort the community are putting in and we are seeing positive results .
On occasions we have had to take action against people who have not followed the rules . "
In the UK , Boris Johnson has ordered all visitors to Britain to isolate for 14 days , in a bid to prevent a second wave of coronavirus .
" To prevent reinfection from abroad , I am serving notice that it will soon be the time – with transmission significantly lower – to impose quarantine on people coming into this country by air , " he said in a televised address as he revealed his “ road map ” for easing lockdown restrictions on 11 May.
Visitors could face fines of up to £ 1,000 and even deportation if spot checks later find they have flouted the rules , which the report claimed could be introduced in June .
Coronavirus : what happened today

From 'how to' to hair dye: our lockdown web searches .
2020-05-19 05:07:57 +00:00 .
YouTube says people are watching instructional videos more than ever as they seek new skills during lockdown .
Videos with titles like " how to " and " step - by - step " are being viewed for 65 % longer than this time last year , the platform said .
Meanwhile , questions which begin " how to ... " are increasingly appearing in search engine trends .
At the same time , online shoppers are in the market for garden plants , lawn mowers , free weights and hair dye .
" There are lots of ' how to ' questions , " said Nalina Eggert , an SEO expert at the BBC .
" How to make hand sanitiser , face masks and bread , how to cut your hair . "
Nalina has seen a notable rise in questions about grammar , punctuation , fractions , human biology and history since the closure of UK schools - as well as specific medical queries surrounding Covid-19 , such as whether the virus can be caught twice , and whether it affects pets .
Then there are more serious search trends - questions about furlough , the R number and medical queries specific to Covid-19 symptoms and prognosis .
" There 's also a much higher - than - usual search for sympathy cards , " Nalina added .
" It 's the highest it 's ever been .
People are looking to buy them , but the most related search is what to write in them .
You imagine it may be people who have never had to send one before .
My heart goes out to them . "
And on a lighter note , there 's one question which pops up on Nalina 's charts every Friday .
" ' What time can you buy alcohol in Scotland ? '
is a regular Friday search .
We all need to mark the weekend somehow . "
( It 's between 10 am and 10 pm - you 're welcome ) .
That Friday feeling ...
More Free weights and loo rolls
Redbrain is an e - commerce platform .
The firm has access to the data of millions of shopping searches and how they translate into sales .
The UK 's top shopping searches during the months of March and April included free weights , lawn mowers , plants , seeds and hair dye .
In March , Redbrain recorded more than 2.1 m searches for free weights , up nearly 4,000 % from February 's activity .
There were over a million more again in April .
There were also one or two noticeable short - lived trends : in March by far the most sought - after item was toilet roll with nearly five million searches ... and in April there were 2.1 million searches for women 's lingerie .
" It 's easy to think the world has stopped and life is put on hold but our data tells a different story , " said Redbrain 's chief growth officer Alistair Campbell .
" We are all going through similar experiences and buying lots of the same things , at the same times .
" Is the nation settling down into the new ' normal ' ?
It 's hard to tell at the moment but the insights into purchasing and volumes certainly show that online retail is evolving and healthy . "
Rocketing growth
The rocketing of internet use during lockdown has been " incredible " to observe , said John Graham - Cumming , chief technology officer of website security company Cloudflare .
" There 's a natural growth that you would expect to see over time - as internet connections into people 's homes improve , people do more stuff online .
" But in 2020 we saw one year of growth in three months . "
But not everyone is using the net to find out how to fix their hair - Cloudflare has noticed that part of that " growth " has been an increase in low - level cyber - crime .
This is commonly in the form of small - scale distributed denial - of - service ( DDOS ) attacks - when a website is flooded with internet traffic to try to knock it offline .
" It 's vandalism - type stuff , " said Mr Graham - Cumming .
" It 's often done by students - we typically see an increase in these attacks during university vacation time . "

VA Asks Public for Donations to Help Homeless Veterans Through Pandemic .
2020-05-19 02:12:42 +00:00 .
The Department of Veterans Affairs asked the public Monday to write a check , donate food and contribute mobile phones to help homeless veterans and those at risk of eviction to get through the COVID-19 pandemic .
" Individuals and organizations are asked to donate essential items such as non - perishables to combat food insecurity and new mobile phones to enable veterans to access VA telehealth services , " the department said in a release .
In addition , " monetary donations will also be accepted to help veterans pay for security deposits for living arrangements to prevent homelessness , " it said .
Related : Veterans with COVID-19 Will Be Given Prostate Cancer Drug in Trial
VA Secretary Robert Wilkie said that the department is " working tirelessly to address the urgent needs of Veterans who are homeless or at risk of homelessness and , with the help of the community , even more can be done . "
" These donations can make a critical difference in the department 's ability to protect and serve vulnerable veterans during this public health emergency , " Wilkie said in a statement .
The VA has a record of accepting tax - deductible donations for a variety of programs , but the latest request indicated the potential impact on veterans from soaring unemployment rates , inevitable failures to pay rent and meet mortgage payments , and the long road to recovery expected from the economic downturn brought on by the pandemic .
Last week , the VA reported that it has been able to increase the number of hospital beds available during the pandemic , while maintaining supply streams and staffing nationwide .
" VA 's team has managed its resources wisely during this crisis , " Wilkie said in the May 13 release .
The plea for donations came a day before Wilkie is to defend the VA 's response to the novel coronavirus threat and the department 's plan for reopening facilities at a hearing of the House Appropriations Committee .
On Monday , the VA reported that the death toll among its patients treated for the coronavirus had risen to 1,012 among a total of 12,242 cases .
The last count of homeless veterans by the Department of Housing and Urban Development in November estimated that there were about 37,000 homeless veterans nationwide -- more than 22,000 in temporary shelters and more than 14,000 " living in places not meant for human habitation . "
Veterans service organizations and advocacy groups have increasingly warned of a rise in veteran homelessness during the pandemic and called for increased funding from Congress to keep veterans off the streets .
At a virtual hearing of the House Veterans Affairs Committee on April 28 , Kathryn Monet , CEO of the National Coalition of Homeless Veterans , said another $ 1.34 billion is needed on top of the $ 17 billion authorized for the VA under the CARES Act signed into law on March 27 .
Avoiding a major increase in veteran homelessness " will require significant investment in programs to serve homeless veterans , " Monet said .
--
Richard Sisk can be reached at Richard.Sisk@Military.com .
Read More :
Canadian Snowbirds Crew Member Who Died in Jet Crash Identified

SpaceX's next launch will officially have astronauts on board .
2020-05-19 00:42:40 +00:00 .
It 's official : the Space Coast 's next launch will have astronauts on board .
Due to the impacts of Tropical Storm Arthur , SpaceX confirmed Monday that its planned Tuesday flight of 60 Starlink satellites will have to wait until after astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley launch from Kennedy Space Center on May 27 .
Starlink had been scheduled to launch at 3:10 a.m.
The tropical storm had already caused issues for SpaceX 's recovery fleet , which had to shift around the Atlantic Ocean several times and seek shelter .
The vessels , one of which includes the Of Course I Still Love You drone ship , are responsible for hosting Falcon 9 booster landings and catching falling rocket nose cones .
Apple is reopening some stores this week : Expect to wear a mask , have temperature checked
Videoconferencing : Four tips for more professional looking – and better sounding – video calls
With the Starlink mission delayed , SpaceX teams can now focus on Crew Dragon 's next flight , known as Demo-2 .
NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine confirmed last week that the capsule is still solidly on the schedule for liftoff from pad 39A at 4:33 p.m.
May 27 .
Bridenstine told FLORIDA TODAY that Behnken and Hurley are slated to depart Houston and arrive at Kennedy Space Center on Wednesday , after which they will continue their coronavirus quarantine procedures – which began last week – ahead of liftoff .
" It looks like they are in very good health and we do n't anticipate that between now and the day of launch there 's really going to be an opportunity for them to contract any virus or harmful bacteria , " Bridenstine said .
" I think we 're in good shape and we 're excited about launching them to the International Space Station . "
On launch day , the duo will ride out to the pad in a NASA - branded vehicle , as is tradition .
But it wo n't be the famous Astrovan – this time , a Tesla Model X all - electric SUV will transport both to pad
39A.
If all goes according to plan , the former shuttle astronauts will spend about 24 hours in Crew Dragon before their arrival at the ISS .
It will mark the first time in nearly a decade that American astronauts have launched from U.S. soil .
In the event that SpaceX and NASA have to delay from the 27th , the next opportunity to launch Demo-2 would fall on May 30 .
Follow Emre Kelly on Twitter @EmreKelly .
Who 's flying in the SpaceX Crew Dragon ?
: Meet astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley .
Amazon : Speedy delivery is picking back up again
This article originally appeared on Florida Today : SpaceX 's next launch will be its first with astronauts on board

He thought the coronavirus was 'a fake crisis.' Then he contracted it. .
2020-05-19 00:03:26 +00:00 .
A Florida man who thought the coronavirus was " a fake crisis " has changed his mind after he and his wife contracted COVID-19 .
Brian Hitchens , a rideshare driver who lives in Jupiter , downplayed the seriousness of the coronavirus in Facebook posts in March and April .
Brian Hitchens ( WPTV )
More " I 'm honoring what our government says to do during this epidemic
but I do not fear this virus because I know that my God is bigger than this Virus will ever be , " he wrote in a post on April 2 .
" Jesus is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords . "
In mid - April , Hitchens , 46 , began documenting his and his wife 's health on Facebook .
" Been home sick for over a week .
Both my wife and I home sick , " he wrote in a post on April 18 .
" I 've got no energy and all I want to do is sleep . "
A day later , Hitchens and his wife , Erin , were admitted to Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center , Hitchens said in a Facebook post .
Hitchens could not immediately be reached for comment Monday .
The voicemail box for a number listed for him is full .
There have been at least 46,442 cases of the coronavirus in Florida — with 1,997 deaths — reported as of Monday morning , according to state health data .
In a lengthy post on May 12 , Hitchens said that he was once among those who thought the coronavirus " is a fake crisis " that was " blown out of proportion " and " was n't that serious . "
That changed when he started to feel sick in April and stopped working , he wrote .
Hitchens said he " had just enough energy " to drive himself and his wife to Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center on April 19 , where they both tested positive for the virus .
" They admitted us right away and we both went to ICU , " he wrote .
" I started feeling better within a few days but my wife got worse to the point where they sedated her and put her on the ventilator . "
Hitchens said he never experienced terrible aches and pains but felt weak and exhausted .
He said he felt better on May 12 , at which point he had been in the hospital for three weeks , and that he still had COVID-19 ,
the disease caused by the coronavirus .
He also said he had pneumonia in his lungs .
" As of today my wife is still sedated and on the ventilator with no signs of improving , " Hitchens wrote .
" There were a couple times were they tried to start weaning her off the ventilator but as soon as they 've done that her oxygen level dropped and they had to put her back on the ventilator full time . "
He said his wife of eight years has been sick " quite a few times " in the past and she always fought through .
This time , he said , " I have come to accept that my wife may pass away . "
Hitchens , who has seen his wife infrequently since they were hospitalized , said he was holding out hope she would recover .
" This thing is nothing to be messed with please listen to the authorities and heed the advice of the experts , " he wrote .
" We do n't have to fear this and by heeding the advice does n't mean that you fear it that means you 're showing wisdom during this epidemic time . "
The May 12 post , in which he implored people to " use wisdom , " has been shared more than 500 times .
" Looking back I should have wore a mask in the beginning but I did n't and perhaps I 'm paying the price for it now , " he wrote .
If he passed the virus on to his wife , he said , he knows that she and God forgive him .
" So just think about what I said and if you have to go out please use wisdom and do n't be foolish like I was ...
so the same thing wo n't happen to you like it happened to me and my wife , " he wrote .
Hitchens had one thing to say in a Facebook post Monday to people who have sent him " nasty messages " saying he deserved to die : " ' I AM NEGATIVE " ! "
PRAISE THE LORD ! ' "

What to Do With a Huge Jet Fuel Cargo When Planes Are Grounded .
2020-05-18 19:43:40 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
With airlines still grounding flights , the last thing Europe probably needs right now is a giant cargo of jet fuel .
Yet , a supertanker hauling about 2 million barrels of it is on its way from Asia .
The fully laden Elandra Denali is set to arrive in Rotterdam on June 6 , adding to the list of recent tanker shipments of the product , many of which are still anchored outside Europe ’s ports .
While the coronavirus pandemic has decimated the global market for aviation fuel , production and trading of it across the world ’s oceans continues .
“ In the world of trading , it ’s always about where you can make the margin , ” said Sandra Octavia , an oil products analyst at Energy Aspects Ltd.
If the price in Europe is higher than in Asia -- taking into account things like financing and freight costs -- then , if it makes sense , you might ship a cargo , she said .
The aviation fuel market has been so badly hit that it ’s now cheaper than diesel in Europe , when normally it ’s more expensive .
That begs the question of what will happen to the product aboard the Elandra Denali , a newly built vessel that loaded most of its jet fuel cargo in South Korea in early April .
The tanker also took on additional fuel via a ship - to - ship transfer , some of which may not be jet , according to research firm Kpler .
One possibility is that the fuel will be stored and sold later at a profit .
The cheapest way to do that is to find an empty tank on land , but it ’s also possible to keep it on the ship for an extended period .
This approach , known as floating storage , is expensive , but if the future prices of the product are high enough , it can still be profitable .
Another option is for the cargo to be blended into diesel - type fuel .
Anyone taking this approach would have to pay close attention to the specifications of the different products , particularly sulfur content and flash point .
While the Elandra Denali is notable for its sheer size , it ’s not alone in bringing jet to Europe .
Tankers stacked with the fuel are gathered off the coast of the U.K. and Rotterdam .
Some have been there for weeks , a possible indication that their owners have opted for floating storage .
There is currently no onshore jet fuel storage for hire in Europe , according to Krien van Beek , a broker at ODIN - RVB Tank Storage Solutions .
Gloomy Outlook
Compared to some other oil products , the outlook for jet is far from rosy .
Energy Aspects expects demand for the fuel to still be down by about 60 % from 2019 levels next month , with a recovery not expected until mid - to - late next year .
The Paris - based International Energy Agency sees demand for jet and kerosene falling by 1.7 million barrels a day year - on - year each month between July and December , according to the organization ’s latest monthly report .
Meanwhile , demand for gasoline -- a much bigger market -- is set to drop by 550,000 barrels a day .
The expected drop in diesel and gasoil is even smaller .
“ Gasoline I can see recovery quite strongly and quickly , but not jet fuel , ” said Steve Sawyer , director of refining at Facts Global Energy .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Anyone Over 5 With Coronavirus Symptoms Will Be Offered A Test .
2020-05-18 16:27:07 +00:00 .
Coronavirus has changed everything .
Make sense of it all with the Waugh Zone , our evening politics briefing .
Sign up now .
Everyone in the UK with symptoms of Covid-19 can get a test if they are five or over , Matt Hancock has announced .
The health secretary unveiled the expansion of the government ’s testing programme in the Commons on Monday amid growing concern over plans to reopen schools to some children on June 1 .
Hancock also said that more than 21,000 contact tracers had been recruited , as ministers try to build an effective “ test , track and trace ” strategy as lockdown measures begin to ease .
Health chiefs earlier announced that a loss of smell or taste is officially a symptom of the disease .
“ We are expanding eligibility for testing further than ever before , ” Hancock told MPs .
It was not yet clear , however , where or when people would be able to access the promised additional tests .
Hancock added : “ Yesterday we conducted 100,678 tests .
Every day we are creating more capacity and that means more people can be tested , and the virus has fewer places to hide .
“ Today , I can announce to the House that everyone aged five and over with symptoms is now eligible for a test .
“ That applies right across the UK in all four nations from now .
“ Anyone with a new continuous cough , a high temperature or the loss or change of sense of taste or smell can book a test by visiting nhs.uk/coronavirus . ”
Revealing new figures for contact tracers , Hancock said : “ Today I can confirm that we have recruited over 21,000 contact tracers in England .
This includes 7,500 health care professionals who will provide our call handlers with expert clinical advice .
“ They will help manually trace the contacts of anyone who ’s had a positive test and advise them on whether they need to isolate .
They have rigorous training with detailed procedures designed by our experts at Public Health England . ”
It is a rapid recruitment after Northern Ireland secretary Brandon Lewis said last week that just 1,500 had then been hired .
Hancock said people who are experiencing a loss or change in their sense of smell , even without any other coronavirus symptom , should self - isolate for seven days or until they are better .
“ From today we are including anosmia , which means that if you have lost your sense of smell or are experiencing a change in your normal sense of smell or taste , that can be a symptom of coronavirus , even where the other symptoms are not present , ” he said .
“ So , from today , if you develop a continuous cough , or fever or anosmia you should immediately self - isolate for at least seven days in line with the guidelines .
Members of your household should self - isolate for 14 days . ”
The health secretary was unable to confirm when the government ’s full “ test , track and trace ” system would be fully operational , however .
Related ...
Fresh Questions Over Testing Capacity As UK Sends
At Least 100,000 Coronavirus Swabs To Germany
Scotland To Begin Easing Coronavirus Lockdown
On May 28 , Nicola Sturgeon Confirms
For Children With Special Needs , Michael Gove ’s Plan To Reopen Schools Is Immensely Damaging Love HuffPost ?
Become a founding member of HuffPost Plus today .
This article originally appeared on HuffPost .

India's capital reopens public transport as nearby Chinese-owned factory is hit by outbreak .
2020-05-18 16:14:18 +00:00 .
By Devjyot Ghoshal and Sankalp Phartiyal NEW DELHI ( Reuters ) - India 's capital New Delhi and some other state governments ordered the re - opening of public transport on Monday in a further easing of a nearly two - month coronavirus shutdown .
Under the new rules , buses , taxis and three - wheelers will return to the streets but with restrictions .
Buses will not carry more than 20 passengers , each of whom will be screened before boarding , Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said .
" Corona will stay , and we will also survive , " Kejriwal said , outlining the new guidelines for the city of 20 million people that has one of highest numbers of coronavirus cases in the country .
However , a factory of the Chinese smartphone maker OPPO near Delhi suspended operations after six workers tested positive for the coronavirus .
The factory had received government permission to resume limited production as part of a gradual relaxation of the shutdown that began on March 25 .
But when OPPO tested workers prior to the restart , six tested positive for COVID-19 , said Deep Chandra , senior official at the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority .
OPPO said in a statement that operations at the plant were suspended and it would only allow employees with negative test results to resume work .
The southern state of Karnataka , home to technology hub Bengaluru , also lifted some restrictions on the movement of trains , taxis and buses within the state .
Transportion from outside the state will remain suspended except for essential services .
Experts say that coronavirus cases will rise in coming weeks as India 's lockdown is eased , and authorities have repeatedly told companies resuming operations to ensure that social distancing and other measures are taken to prevent infections .
MIGRANT WORKERS
India has seen a rapid rise in coronavirus infections in recent days , with confirmed cases at around 96,000 and more than 3,000 deaths , according to federal data .
On Sunday , Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's government extended the nationwide lockdown to May 31 , but relaxed rules in areas with lower numbers of cases and allowed state governments to issue their own guidelines on some matters .
With the restrictions eased , some traffic poured back onto the roads of the capital , and hairdressers , beauty parlours , stationary shops , and butchers were among the small businesses reopening elsewhere in the country .
But schools , malls and other public places will remain mostly closed , and large gatherings are still prohibited .
Compounding the challenges for the country , hundreds of millions of migrant workers have been stranded across India for weeks , unable to return home after authorities banned all transport services in late March .
After a series of road and rail accidents , where dozens of workers died , authorities are now increasing efforts to help them home .
In the southern city of Chennai , construction worker M.D. Rustom queued along with hundreds of others for a bus and train trip back to the eastern state of Bihar , some 2,000 km away .
" We do n't have money to eat , " he said .
" It has been over 50 days , we just want to go back now .
( Additional reporting by Derek Francis in Bengaluru and Sudarshan Varadhan in Chennai ;
Editing by Alexandra Ulmer , Sanjeev Miglani and Angus MacSwan )

Hertz Names New CEO in Midst of Effort to Avoid Bankruptcy .
2020-05-18 15:59:37 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. promoted the head of its North American car - rental operations to lead the company as its chief executive officer leaves in the midst of efforts to ward off bankruptcy .
Paul Stone , a Hertz executive vice president and chief retail operations officer , becomes CEO immediately after the resignation of Kathryn Marinello , according to a statement .
The company has until May 22 to restructure lease payments with bondholders and has cast doubt on its ability to pay debt obligations and continue as a going concern .
Marinello , 63 , was in the top job for just under 3 1/2 years , and Stone , 50 , will be Hertz ’s fifth CEO since 2014 .
He spent almost three decades at Walmart Inc. and was chief retail officer at outdoor - gear retailer Cabela ’s Inc. before joining Hertz in March 2018 .
Hertz shares surged as much as 17 % and were up 12 % as of 9:55 a.m. in New York .
The stock has plunged more than 80 % this year .
Before the coronavirus pandemic hit and sent the travel business into free fall , Hertz had been gaining some traction under Marinello .
Just a week ago on a call with analysts to discuss first - quarter earnings that were worse than expected , the company touted its run of 10 straight quarters of revenue growth and nine straight quarters of higher earnings before interest , taxes , depreciation and amortization .
Marinello inherited a company in trouble when she took over in January 2017 .
Her predecessor , John Tague , tried unsuccessfully to raise prices and lost market share .
Under both Tague and earlier CEO Mark Frissora , Hertz under - invested in vehicles .
After taking the top job , Marinello set out to freshen Hertz ’s fleet by getting rid of unwanted compact cars and family sedans that depreciated faster than more popular crossovers and SUV models .
Those efforts resulted in better pricing at the rental counter and in the used - car market , but also saddled Hertz with more debt than rival Avis Budget Group Inc.
When business collapsed due to Covid-19 travel restrictions starting in March , Hertz found itself cutting costs to save cash and make its hefty debt and lease payments .
The company got a forbearance on May 4 to avoid liquidation of its cars .
Since then , Hertz has been negotiating with lenders to restructure its finances in court or , if need be , potentially file for bankruptcy protection .
Stone brings experience running the U.S. rental business , which makes up almost 80 % of Hertz ’s revenue and will be vital to turning the business around .
( Updates with shares after market opening in New York in fourth paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Hedge Funds Can Resume Short-Selling Across Europe .
2020-05-18 15:05:24 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Hedge funds , market - making firms and other traders across Europe can resume short - selling of equities this week after regulators lifted bans put in place when markets plunged during March ’s coronavirus outbreak .
Six European countries including France , Spain , and Austria said short - selling can begin again on Tuesday as bans set to expire Monday will not be renewed .
Italy ’s prohibition , slated to end in June , will also now end today , as will Greek and Belgian curbs .
Muddy Waters founder Carson Block welcomed the move and predicted that any analysis on the impact of short - selling bans in Europe will show they were ultimately “ unhelpful . ”
“ We note that since the bans were imposed , the CAC 40 index has risen only 10 % , while the DAX and SP 500 , which cover markets that did not impose bans , have each risen almost 20 % , ” Block said in an email , referring to France , Germany and the U.S.
The prohibitions , which had been strongly opposed by hedge funds , proprietary trading firms and Germany ’s primary exchange , were put in place in mid - March when regulators said such trading could exacerbate the steep declines in equity markets .
Stephane Ekolo , an equity strategist at TFS Derivatives in London , said Monday ’s move is “ positive for price discovery . ”
He expects many stocks to revert to the negative trend they had prior to the prohibitions , as was the case after the 2008 short - selling bans .
Short - selling , in which traders sell borrowed shares to profit from any fall in price , is controversial at the best of times .
Proponents say it results in a more liquid , efficient market , and alerts investors to problems at targeted firms .
Opponents accuse short - sellers of destabilizing companies .
“ Short - selling is an activity that is part of a well - functioning market , ” Robert Ophele , chairman of France ’s Autorité des Marchés Financiers , said Monday in a Bloomberg TV interview .
Ophele said the restrictions “ did n’t have any detrimental effects ” on the market and he looks forward to subsequent research on the effect of the bans , which covered markets hosting 60 % of trading in the euro area .
John Moore , head of trading at Berkeley Capital Wealth Management , took a principled position after regulators announced the end of the bans .
“ If we believe a company is overvalued , we want to be able to short it , ” he said .
“ That ’s what makes a market .
We do n’t think there should be any restrictions or limits on that . ”
Regulators in France and Italy said on Monday that the bans are no longer needed because trading has become more normal .
While volatility is higher than it was in February before the virus outbreak in Europe , the AMF said this is more a reflection of traders ’ uncertainty about the future .
“ We understood the rationale of the ban on short - selling in March to ‘ cool down ’ the markets when everyone was selling everything at the same time , ” said Stephane Boujnah , chief executive officer of Euronext NV .
“ However , now that volatility has somewhat returned to normal and there is much more diversification across trading patterns , this is a wise decision . ”
The European Securities and Markets Authority , the Paris - based regulator that oversees standards across the bloc , coordinated the end of the bans .
The regulator will continue to require increased disclosure of short positions until at least June 16 .
( Updates with Carson Block comment starting in seventh paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Ireland cautiously begins to lift virus lockdown .
2020-05-18 15:03:24 +00:00 .
Ireland took the first tentative steps to ease coronavirus lockdown restrictions Monday , with outdoor workers returning to their jobs , some shops reopening and sports facilities unlocking their doors .
The modest tweaks to the restrictions in place since March 28 start a staggered process that is set to last until August .
" I 'm both pleased and nervous , " Health Minister Simon Harris told state broadcaster RTE .
" I 'm pleased that we 've gotten to this point because of the incredible efforts of the Irish people in suppressing this virus . "
" I 'm nervous because the virus has n't gone away , there still is n't a vaccine , there 's still people in our country getting very sick , and there 's still people dying every day . "
Shops such as garden centres , mobile phone shops and farmers ' markets were permitted to reopen .
People working outdoors such as builders and gardeners also returned to work .
Across Dublin , construction workers could be seen unloading equipment and the cranes above sites lurched back into motion after weeks of inaction .
Hardware stores also reopened and Irish media reports spoke of large queues forming outside .
Traffic was also up in the centre of the capital , but many premises remained boarded up and buses were largely empty .
Football pitches , tennis courts and golf courses were also allowed to resume business , provided they practised strict social distancing .
- Social distancing still applies -
At Dublin 's Howth Golf Club , play resumed with a steady trail of players -- in groups of no more than two , and teeing off on a carefully staggered schedule .
" It 's great to see the people back , " club professional Alan O'Sullivan told AFP .
" I think the biggest issue with people that have been cocooning -- over 70s or if they have an ongoing issue -- is that they have n't seen many people over the last couple of months .
" They will be able to play golf here with one other person but they wo n't see too many other people . "
Citizens are now allowed to meet people from different households in small gatherings outside .
But Harris urged caution as the republic took its first steps in trying " to live successfully and safely alongside the virus .
" Just because somewhere is open does n't mean we need to go , " he said .
On the airwaves , a government radio broadcast urged people to " stay the course " by adhering to social distancing .
There have been 1,543 deaths from COVID-19 recorded in Ireland , according to the department for health .
Reported daily deaths peaked at 77 on April 20 , and by Sunday the figure had fallen to just 10 .
- ' Reason to hope ' -
As with other nations , officials remain fearful that a second wave of infections could overwhelm the healthcare system .
But Prime Minister Leo Varadkar confirmed on Friday that Ireland would press ahead with the first stage of its five - step plan to reopen the nation .
" This gives us reason to hope , but it is not a cause for celebration .
We have a long way to go yet , " he said .
The effects of the lockdown changes will be monitored for three weeks before the government decides whether or not to move to the next stage .
" Coronavirus is an inferno that is raging around the world " , said Varadkar .
" In Ireland it is now a fire in retreat
but it 's not defeated -- we must extinguish every spark . "
Ireland has launched the first step of what is planned as a five - stage process of easing the lockdown in place since March Outdoor workers , some shops and sports facilities are now able to open

China confirms over 80 per cent tariff on Australian barley exports .
2020-05-18 13:29:04 +00:00 .
China has confirmed it will impose a tariff of 80.5 per cent on Australia ’s barley exports following the conclusion of its anti - dumping investigations , delivering a massive blow to the Australian barley industry .
On Monday night , China ’s Ministry of Commerce ( MOFCOM ) said its investigations had proven the dumping of cheap Australian barley had hurt its domestic market .
“ The investigating authority investigated whether there had been dumping and damage to the domestic barley industry and the degree of damage , and the causal relationship between dumping and damage , ” a notice by MOFCOM said .
“ The investigating authority has ruled that there was dumping of imported barley from Australia and the domestic industry suffered substantial damage . ”
After issuing a warning about impending tariffs just over a week ago , the move has been confirmed by the State Council Customs Tariff Commission to levy an anti - dumping tariff of 73.6 per cent and a countervailing subsidy margin of 6.9 per cent .
At the start of the investigation in November 2018 , Chinese authorities suggested an anti - dumping tariff of 56.14 per cent but that was subsequently raised to 73.6 per cent .
The tariff will immediately be levied on Australian companies The Iluka Trust , Kalgan Nominees , JW JI Mcdonald Sons and Haycroft Enterprise , according to MOFCOM , while other companies will be liable to pay the tariff from Tuesday .
“ For new export operators who did not export barley to China during the investigation period , they can apply in writing to the investigation authority for a new exporter ’s review , ” MOFCOM said .
The relationship between Australia and China is at a low point after the announcement of the potential tariff last week and a ban on beef exports from four meat processing plants in Australia .
The moves raised suspicions in Australia that China is using technical requirements to punish Canberra for its political position in pushing to coordinate an international inquiry into the origins of the coronavirus following a conversation with US President Donald Trump , although China had emphasised the two were unrelated .
The toll on Australia ’s agricultural exports from the Chinese restrictions would be heavy , especially since the A$ 1.3 billion ( US$ 834 million ) barley trade to China accounts for around half of Australia ’s barley exports .
Australia and China have been at loggerheads previously over concerns of Chinese foreign interference in Australia , while China retorted by accusing Australia of being a mouthpiece of the United States .
While Australia too had imposed its share of tariffs on Chinese products such as steel and aluminium previously , the two countries enjoy zero tariffs on many other products under the China - Australia Free Trade Agreement .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article China confirms over 80 per cent tariff on Australian barley exports first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Deadly building site collapse in China stops work at Country Garden sites .
2020-05-18 13:29:04 +00:00 .
A top Chinese property developer has stopped work at all of its projects in a southwestern region after six workers died at a construction site on Saturday night .
The workers – five men and a woman – were killed when a construction lift crashed at Country Garden ’s Phoenix City project in Yulin in the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region , the region ’s building safety authority said .
Footage posted online showed firefighters removing bodies from a tangle of steel frames .
Country Garden , China ’s biggest developer by sales , said on Monday that it had halted construction and ordered safety assessments of all building cranes and lifts at its Guangxi sites .
“ [ We should ] learn the painful lessons of this accident , strengthen management of construction sites , … and resolutely prevent such accidents from happening again , ” the company said , adding that it was deeply saddened by the incident .
Guangxi ’s construction safety authority urged all cities and counties in the region to immediately inspect building cranes and equipment for safety .
According to the China Labour Bulletin , a Hong Kong - based non - governmental organisation that tracks work accidents in China , this was the most serious incident in China ’s construction sector since the country resumed work on projects last month as coronavirus cases began to stabilise .
It is the second time in two years Country Garden has had to suspend projects due to a work accident .
In July 2018 , the developer , which had sales of over 550 billion yuan ( US$ 77 billion ) in 2019 , announced a nationwide stoppage after a workers ’ dormitory collapsed , killing six and injuring 12 in Luan county in the eastern province of Anhui .
Investigations later concluded that the collapse was caused by torrential rain and strong winds .
The company vowed to thoroughly inspect and address potential safety hazards , including those at temporary dormitories built at work sites .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
This article Deadly building site collapse in China stops work at Country Garden sites first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

NSW virus deaths hit 48, road chaos feared .
2020-05-18 10:30:26 +00:00 .
Students at NSW public schools will return to classroom teaching full time from next Monday , two months after coronavrius forced them to study at home .
NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian is due to confirm the return date of May 25 on Tuesday , the ABC and Sydney Morning Herald reported on Monday .
There will however be no assemblies or excursions during the pandemic .
Face - to - face learning resumed across NSW last week with year 12 students at state and independent schools returning on average three to four days a week while other students are attending school at least one day a week .
It comes as the NSW transport minister warned of indefinite Sydney traffic chaos as social distancing measures force people returning to on - site employment off public transport .
Ms Berejiklian on Monday said peak - hour bus and train services were already at capacity - with just 12 passengers per bus and 32 per train carriage permitted .
Ms Berejiklian and Transport Minister Andrew Constance on Monday said workers would for the foreseeable future need to shift their schedules to off - peak bus and train transport , take alternative ferry and light rail routes or drive , drop off , cycle or walk .
This would inevitably clog Sydney roads .
Mr Constance said some 87 million vehicle movements were on Friday recorded around the state as people continued to work from home - down from an average 105 million .
The maximum number of daily public transport trips permitted amid social distancing guidelines , meanwhile , would be 600,000 per day - down from 2.2 million .
" Ultimately people are going to opt to drive because it 's safe , " Mr Constance told reporters .
" I could sit here and say there wo n't be congestion on the roads but I 'd be misleading you - there is .
That 's why we want people to re - time their days .
" These are tough days - I know this is hard . "
Ms Berejiklian said public transport commuters should try to travel between 10 am and 2 pm in order to save peak - hour space for essential workers and construction workers .
Socially - distanced seating on public transport would be marked out in " green dots " in what Mr Constance characterised as a " nudge " to keep people 1.5 metres apart .
Overflow parking , meanwhile , would be established in various Sydney locations - most notably inner Sydney 's Moore Park - for vehicle commuters , with socially - distanced CBD shuttles .
" We appreciate some workplaces already have a staggered approach to work - some people have already been going in and others might assess their options once their children are back at school , we appreciate that thinking is going on , " Ms Berejiklian said .
" This is a new way of doing things .
Until there 's a cure or vaccine , we have to live with COVID . "
The recommendations come as a man aged in his 60s became the 48th fatality in NSW , while the state only recorded one new case of COVID-19 on Sunday from some 6000 tests , with six people in intensive care .
The man , who died on Sunday , caught the virus from a personal contact and had underlying health problems , NSW chief health officer Dr Kerry Chant said .
NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard on Sunday said he 'd noted many people at cafes and restaurants over the weekend were not observing the 1.5 - metre social distancing rule .
" It 's fair to say that there has been , in a sense , a great NSW bust - out , " Mr Hazzard said .
Ms Berejiklian also said on the weekend the state 's success in blunting the impact of COVID-19 may help attract private investment capital otherwise headed to the virus - hit US and UK .
She declared future NSW economic policy would involve " far less regulation " and " flexibility to innovate " for the private sector and suggested GST reform should be discussed .

U.S. Pot Earnings Shine as Canada Struggles: Cannabis Weekly .
2020-05-18 09:34:05 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The top U.S. cannabis companies are notably outperforming their struggling Canadian counterparts , yet valuations are still held back by their inability to list on the big American exchanges .
The divergence was well illustrated by two large companies that reported earnings Thursday night .
Green Thumb Industries Inc. became the first U.S. pot company to generate revenue above $ 100 million and beat Ebitda expectations for the fifth consecutive quarter .
Shares climbed 17 % Friday .
Meanwhile , Canada ’s Aurora Cannabis Inc. , which is struggling to turn a profit before it runs out of cash , said it is on track to meet previously disclosed cost - cutting targets .
Shares skyrocketed 54 % .
“ I think this is an inflection point where the U.S. market is becoming the dominant market in the global marijuana space , ” said Mark Noble , executive vice president of strategy at Horizons ETFs Management Inc. , which offers exchange - traded funds that track both the Canadian and U.S. pot sectors .
“ I think the only thing that ’s really keeping these stocks from overtaking the Canadian LPs is the fact that they ’re not listed on the U.S. stock market . ”
While the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq have listed Canadian cannabis companies like Aurora and Canopy Growth Corp. , they prohibit any company with marijuana operations in the U.S. since the drug is still illegal under federal law .
The Toronto Stock Exchange wo n’t list them either , leaving them to smaller bourses like the Canadian Securities Exchange .
This means a smaller investors base and therefore lower valuations on average .
To be sure , the U.S. sector has actually outperformed the Canadian sector since the market ’s pandemic - related low on March 18 .
Since then , the Horizons US Marijuana Index ETF has gained 94 % while the Horizons Marijuana Life Sciences Index ETF , which tracks mainly Canadian companies , has added 38 % .
“ For people putting new money into the marijuana market , it ’s going into these stocks rather than the existing , legacy LPs from Canada , ” Noble said .
“ It ’s a startling divergence , in my opinion . ”
While U.S. stocks have been bolstered by most states ’ decision to declare marijuana an essential service during lockdowns
, Canadian companies have struggled with an already - slow retail rollout in major provinces like Ontario , which has slowed even further because of the pandemic .
Total store count in Canada grew just 1.4 % in April , according to Cowen analyst Vivien Azer .
“ Regardless of progress on cost cutting , if Ontario stores do not start opening in the somewhat near future , industry revenues will not reach the levels required for most firms to reach profitability , and we believe Aurora is no different , ” CIBC analyst John Zamparo said in a note .
More clarity on the health of the U.S. cannabis industry will come this week with earnings from major players including Curaleaf Holdings Inc. , Trulieve Cannabis Corp. and Harvest Health Recreation Inc.
Events This Week MONDAY 5/18
Canadian markets closed for the Victoria Day holidayCuraleaf Holdings Inc. reports earnings post - market WEDNESDAY 5/20 Trulieve Cannabis Corp. reports results before markets openHarvest Health Recreation Inc. releases earnings post - market
Last Week ’s Top Stories Aurora Cannabis Soars as Analysts Tout Progress in Cutting Costs
Tilray Positive Ebitda Target Questioned Amid Covid Uncertainty United Cannabis Bankruptcy Fate Turns on Hemp , Marijuana Split Arizona Court Denies Online Ballot Measure Petition During Virus
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

MPs to consider repealing EU freedom of movement rules in the UK .
2020-05-18 08:37:54 +00:00 .
Ministers will launch a fresh attempt to repeal EU freedom of movement rules in the UK as flagship immigration legislation appears before MPs .
The Immigration and Social Security Co - ordination ( EU Withdrawal )
Bill is part of the move towards the Government ’s new points - based immigration system , to be introduced from 2021 , although it does not set out the details on this .
These will be fleshed out in the immigration rules , which will explain the future system for EU and non - EU nationals who move to the UK after the Brexit transition period ends on December 2020 .
Home Secretary Priti Patel ( Dominic Lipinski / PA )
More
The Bill will be debated at second reading on Monday and then make its way through the parliamentary process .
It was previously introduced in the Commons in December 2018 but stalled weeks later as then prime minister Theresa May ’s minority administration lacked the numbers to win key Brexit - linked votes .
Prime Minister Boris Johnson brings it back with an 80 - seat majority but amid pressure for the immigration rules to support those dubbed “ key workers ” during the coronavirus pandemic .
A YouGov poll , for the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants ( JCWI ) , suggested 54 % of Britons would support loosening immigration restrictions for workers who were defined as essential during the crisis .
The Government ’s list of critical workers includes people in the food production and processing industry , such as delivery drivers , those working in waste disposal and more .
In February the Government announced proposals for the new system , with points awarded for specific requirements such as being able to speak English to a certain level , having a job offer from an approved employer and meeting a salary threshold of £ 25,600 .
Other points could be awarded for certain qualifications and if there is a shortage in a particular occupation .
A visa allowing doctors , nurses and health professionals from overseas to work in the NHS was introduced in March .
An extract from the first page of the Immigration and Social Security Co - ordination ( EU Withdrawal ) Bill ( PA )
More
Ahead of the Bill ’s return to the Commons , Home Secretary Priti Patel said in a brief statement : “ This historic piece of legislation gives the UK full control of our immigration system for the first time in decades and the power to determine who comes to this country .
“ Our new points - based system is firmer , fairer , and simpler .
“ It will attract the people we need to drive our economy forward and lay the foundation for a high wage , high skill , high productivity economy . ”
Story continues
Labour frontbencher Alison McGovern , however , said the Government needed a different approach .
She told the BBC : “ We need to look at the system that we have for social care ( and ) ask ourselves : how are we going to improve the pay , improve the conditions , make sure that we ’ve got a good number of people coming in to work in social care ?
And work out our immigration policy along with that aspiration to have skilled , well - paid people working in social care . ”
Elsewhere , Satbir Singh , chief executive of the JCWI , called for further changes and said : “ The fight against Covid-19 has shown us all just how much our survival and wellbeing depends on our key workers .
“ So many of them have come from other countries and help keep this one running .
“ Bus drivers and lorry drivers , care workers and shop workers , nurses and cleaners – they are not ‘ unskilled ’ or unwelcome , they are the backbone of our country and they deserve the security of knowing that this place can be their home too . ”
Watch the latest videos from Yahoo UK

One death confirmed after Snowbird jet crashes in Kamloops, B.C. .
2020-05-18 03:05:03 +00:00 .
One death confirmed after Snowbird jet crashes in Kamloops , B.C.
More
The Royal Canadian Air Force has confirmed that one member of the CF Snowbirds team has died and one has sustained serious injuries after a jet crashed in Kamloops , British Columbia on May 17 .
Capt .
Jenn Casey , a public affairs officer with the Snowbirds , has been identified as the victim that sustained fatal injuries , as reported by CBC News .
Casey is from Halifax , NS and her biography on the RCAF website says that she worked in Halifax , NS and Belleville , ON as a journalist for several years .
She then joined the Canadian Armed Forces in August 2014 as a direct entry officer before joining the Snowbirds in November 2018 .
Kamloops Mayor Ken Christian has stated that the military is sending an investigation team to Kamloops and the Snowbirds will remain grounded for now .
Kamloops This Week reported that two jets took off from Kamloops Airport around 11:30 a.m. local time on May 17 , bound for Comox .
One jet took off then began circling before it crashed near Glenview Avenue and Schreiner Street .
The plane reportedly hit a house when it crashed in the residential area .
On Sunday afternoon , B.C. Health Minister Adrian Dix tweeted that one person was taken to hospital after the crash .
Reports on social media showed the initial damage of the plane crash , including first responders addressing a fire that started after the crash .
The Snowbirds have been completing a cross - country tour to boost morale amid the COVID-19 pandemic .
The Facebook page for the Canadian Forces Snowbirds stated that they were originally set to take off from Kamloops at 10 a.m. on May 17 before landing in Kelowna at 11:00 a.m.
The group tweeted that this plan had changed due to the weather conditions at that time .
" We know some areas are starting to clear up , however transit through some of the mountain passes have very low cloud cover which is unsafe for flying nine jets .
We are going to ( reposition ) to Comox to start working our way west , " their Twitter post states .
Environment Canada had issued a special weather statement on Sunday morning for the Okanagan that warned of the heavy rain on Sunday evening .
Check back for updates as additional information becomes available .

SoftBank to Buy Back More Shares, Jack Ma to Leave Board .
2020-05-18 00:18:09 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
SoftBank Group Corp. doubled the amount it plans to spend buying back shares and announced changes to its board , including the resignation of long - time director Jack Ma .
The company plans to re - purchase as much as 500 billion yen ( $ 4.7 billion ) worth of its own stock by March 2021 , the company said in a statement .
SoftBank will buy as many as 135 million shares , or about 6.7 % of its total .
That ’s on top of the equally sized re - purchase announced in mid - March .
The Tokyo - based company , led by founder Masayoshi Son , is buying back shares to bolster its stock price after its portfolio of startup investments last value .
Softbank said it expects to book a record 1.35 trillion yen operating loss for the year ended March 31 when it reports financial results Monday afternoon .
SoftBank had been among the most aggressive investors in startups in recent years , but it is now marking down the value of stakes in companies such as WeWork , Oyo Hotels and Uber Technologies Inc.
The company said on Friday that it had bought 250.6 billion yen of its own stock since March 13 , about half of the 500 billion yen budget for the re - purchase that had been slated to run through next March .
It purchased 58,648,400 of its own stock as of April 30 , amounting to roughly 40 % of the 145 million planned total , SoftBank said in a statement on Friday .
Read more : SoftBank ’s $ 23 Billion Buyback
Helps Investors Ignore Profit Hit
Separately , SoftBank said that Ma , co - founder of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. , will step down from its board on June 25 .
Alibaba is regarded as Son ’s most successful investment .
The buyback announced in mid - March initially failed to lift SoftBank ’s stock amid concerns the conglomerate ’s portfolio of startups is particularly vulnerable to the economic shock from the coronavirus pandemic .
When the shares plunged more than 30 % in the week that followed , Son took an unprecedented step to unveil a second re - purchase of as much as 2 trillion yen .
That latest announcement is part of that plan .
The stock gained almost 70 % since SoftBank said it plans to sell assets to raise as much as 4.5 trillion yen over the coming year to buy shares and slash debt .
Read more :
SoftBank Heads for Record Loss After $ 80 Billion Startup Spree
The company ’s Vision Fund business , technology investments that contributed more than half of its reported profit a year ago , has swung to a projected 1.8 trillion yen loss .
The company ’s overall net loss will likely reach 900 billion yen .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

A tourist from New York was arrested after violating Hawaii's self-quarantine orders and documenting the breach on Instagram .
2020-05-17 20:40:56 +00:00 .
Caleb Jones / AP
A New York City man was arrested in Hawaii for violating the state 's mandatory quarantine and documenting the breach on Instagram , authorities said .
Tarique Peters , a 23 - year - old from the Bronx , arrived in O'ahu on May 11 , according to the statement .
While on the island , he left his hotel room and traveled on public transportation to tan , hit the beach with a surfboard , and explore Waikiki at night , authorities said in a statement released by the governor 's office .
Agents confirmed Peters ' moves with employees at his hotel in addition to finding pictures of his activities on his Instagram page before he was arrested , according to the statement .
Hawaii Attorney General Clare Connors said in a statement that officials were grateful to local people who spotted and flagged Peters ' " flagrant " behavior in violation against the lockdown , which is aimed at curbing the spread of the novel coronavirus .
" We appreciate the assistance of local people who spot flagrant violations of our emergency rules on various social media sites and report them to the appropriate authorities , " Connors said in a press release .
The charges against Peters were pending as of May 16 and his bail was set at $ 4,000 , authorities said .
As of May 16 , Peters ' Instagram account had 511 followers and a bio that said he is a " frequent flyer .
"
Alongside other travel photos and pictures of Peters around New York City , his five most recent photos appear to have been posted from his time in Waikiki and have been flooded with critical comments slamming him for brushing off quarantine orders .
Hawaii currently has 638 reported cases of the novel coronavirus .
Officials announced a mandatory 14 - day self - quarantine order for incoming travelers on March 26 .
The Hawaii Department of Transportation announced in late April that all incoming passengers would have their temperature taken and signing a legal document that acknowledges they understand violating self - quarantine is a criminal offense that is " subject to a $ 5,000 fine and/or a year imprisonment . "
and the vacation destination has since seen a sharp decrease in arrivals .
The Honolulu Star - Advertiser reported that of the " about 858 passengers " that arrived in Hawaii on May 14 , 318 were returning residents and 252 were visitors .
A report from the Hawaii Tourism Authority said that " while most visitors said they were arriving for business or to see family or friends , 12 of them said they came just for a vacation , " the outlet reported .
This number pales in comparison to this time last year , when " nearly 30,000 passengers — visitors and residents — arrived in Hawaii daily . "
Read the original article on Insider

Italy’s 'new normal' begins Monday amid hopes and fears .
2020-05-17 19:03:09 +00:00 .
Italians begin their new post - Covid-19 life on 18 May and it will have vastly different rules to those they lived by before the epidemic .
After more than two months of one of the world 's strictest nationwide lockdowns , the country that has lost nearly 32,000 people to the coronavirus is ready to open up .
Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte announced the government ’s plan going forward in a Saturday evening conference televised to the nation .
He made clear that , although all stores , bars and restaurants , hairdressers and beauty salons across Italy could re - open , this did not rule out the possibility of new closures or lockdowns , should new Covid-19 infections occur .
“ We are facing a calculated risk .
I have to admit , very clearly , that the curve could go up again , " the prime minister said .
“ Our principles and values remain the same : first of all , the protection of life and the citizens ’ health .
These are non - negotiable –
but we have to face them in a different way in this second phase .
We have to accept that , because otherwise we will never get going again . "
Conte said Italians would now be able to move freely within their region of residence and without carrying permission and certified identity documents .
They will be free not only to meet up with relatives but also with friends .
There is no limit to the number of friends they can meet , but crowds and parties are to be avoided at all times – both inside and outside private residences .
Churches , museums Customers entering stores will have to continue to wear protective masks and gloves , and bars and restaurants will have to drastically reorganise their spaces according to the new distancing directives for public places .
Churches are also resuming their services but only a limited number of faithful will be able to attend .
Places of worship will undergo sanitisation every evening .
Museums can also reopen , under similar restrictions .
The prime minister announced another important move : from 25 May , swimming pools , sports centres and gyms will also re - open – but not saunas or Turkish baths .
Cinemas and theatres will re - open from 15 June .
Reopening borders
But the date all Italians were waiting to hear was 3 June , when they will be again be permitted not only to travel between regions – but also abroad .
Most importantly , at this time of economic hardship , 3 June has also been set as the date that tourists will be able to return to Italy .
There will be new rules for those going to beaches and visiting the various sights , but hotels are ready welcome foreigners again .
The tourism sector is hugely important for the survival of the country – and preparations have begun .

Wuhan’s hospitals return to normal after last coronavirus patients return home .
2020-05-17 10:23:17 +00:00 .
Wuhan ’s hospitals returned to normal over the weekend after the last Covid-19 patients in the city where the disease first emerged were discharged .
However , more cases of the disease continued to emerge in northeast China , with three new cases , all from community infections , and one death recorded in Jilin province on Saturday .
As a result , the Fengman district in Jilin city has been elevated to “ high - risk ” status , joining the nearby city of Shulan on the highest alert level .
The Jinlin government advised the general public to increase their precautions , and protect the health of themselves and their families .
“ If you have a fever , cough and other acute respiratory symptoms , you should go to a local designated medical institution to get treatment immediately , ” the statement said .
Shulan party chief Li Pengfei was removed from his post on Friday and the following day five more officials there and in Jilin city were also dismissed .
Meanwhile , Wuhan continued to show signs that life was returning to normal .
All hospitals in the city , the original epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak , had resumed normal service on Saturday after treating thousands of Covid-19 patients , local media reported .
Doctors at Wuhan University ’s Renmin Hospital – one of the 48 hospitals designated as a Covid-19 treatment centre – treated nearly 1,000 patients on the first day of normal service resuming , the Changjiang Daily reported on Sunday .
It was the last hospital in Wuhan to resume normal operations , after more than four months battling the outbreak .
During that time , thousands of Wuhan residents were unable to get treatment for emergencies or chronic diseases , but the number of people who died as a result was not recorded .
Before reopening , the hospital underwent a sanitising process that took more than three days , in which all air conditioners , filters , and bedsheets were disinfected .
All patients entering the hospital were required to submit personal information , including their temperature and contact history , in a makeshift shelter set up in front of the hospital ’s main entrance before being allowed in .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
This article Wuhan ’s hospitals return to normal after last coronavirus patients return home first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Coronavirus latest: at a glance .
2020-05-16 18:10:22 +00:00 .
Key developments in the global coronavirus outbreak today include : Italy records lowest daily death toll in 10 weeks
Italy ’s coronavirus death toll has risen to 31,763 , as a further 153 deaths were reported , its lowest 24 - hour increase in deaths since 9 March .
The country ’s total official death toll now stands at 31,763 , the third highest in the world after those of the United States and Britain .
Spanish government aims to extend state of emergency
Spain ’s government will seek to extend the country ’s coronavirus state of emergency for the last time until late June , the prime minister , Pedro Sánchez , said on Saturday as the country ’s daily death toll reached a near eight - week low .
Thousands of Germans protest over government restrictions
Anti - lockdown demonstrators have taken to the streets of German cities for the second weekend in a row to protest against restrictions imposed by the government to contain the coronavirus , despite some lockdown measures having been relaxed .
Britain ’s death toll rises by 468
The UK ’s death toll from confirmed coronavirus cases has risen by 468 and now stands at 34,466 .
The country has recorded a total of 240,161 confirmed cases , as teaching unions have said they will work with the government to begin reopening schools in England as long as it can be done safely .
Zimbabwe ’s lockdown to stay in place
The southern African nation will keep its coronavirus lockdown for the time being , though businesses will be allowed to open for longer and the restrictions will be reviewed every two weeks , the president , Emmerson Mnangagwa , has confirmed .
Canada increases child benefit to help struggling families
The prime minister , Justin Trudeau , announced an increase to child benefit , which was introduced four years ago , as a lifeline for families during the pandemic .
Canada ’s death toll increased to 5,595 , up from 5,499 .
Hungary ’s lockdown to be gradually lifted
The government will start easing lockdown restrictions in Budapest from Monday , two weeks after it ended the restrictions in the rest of the country , the prime minister , Viktor Orbán , said on his official Facebook page on Saturday .
Domestic flights resume in Pakistan
Flights between major cities in Pakistan took off again for the first time in nearly two months on Saturday , with passengers required to wear face masks and vacant seats left between passengers .
International flights will remain suspended until 31 May.

Tourist hotspots busy despite coronavirus warnings .
2020-05-16 17:58:00 +00:00 .
Visitors have flocked to beauty spots across England , despite some local authorities urging people to stay away on the first weekend since coronavirus lockdown measures were partially eased in England .
The Derbyshire Dales had issued a warning to tourists to not visit but said that hotspots in the area were busy , despite most facilities including toilets remaining closed .
The council said this had resulted in some people using the street to relieve themselves .
On Saturday evening , the council tweeted : Good weather drew many people to their favourite beauty spots after the UK government allowed unlimited travel for outdoor exercise or sunbathing .
Related : Coronavirus UK map : the latest deaths and confirmed cases in each region
Elsewhere , on Saturday morning the Peak District national park called for the public not to travel to the area as car parks started filling up .
The park authority said the Langsett area at its north - eastern edge was “ extremely busy ” on Saturday morning , making physical distancing difficult .
Visitors flocked there despite people being asked to “ think carefully ” before visiting national parks and beaches .
Royal Greenwich council in London similarly asked people to stay away from the area so residents could get around safely : Birmingham Live reported that car parks at the city ’s biggest park were packed .
Couples , dog walkers , cyclists , joggers and young families were pictured enjoying the fresh air in the park as police officers in a marked car patrolled the area .
In Wales , where the stricter stay - at - home rules remain in force , visitors travelled to tourist destinations from England .
Police forces across Wales have continued to patrol beaches , coastal areas , and other public spaces , with the weather forecast to be sunny , and have also been conducting checks on motorists .
In Pembrokeshire , Dyfed - Powys traffic officers stopped a rented white Transit van from Bristol .
“ The three occupants stated they were going to the beach , there was also camping equipment within the vehicle , ” the force said .
“ All three reported for non - essential travel , vehicle turned around . ”
Meanwhile , a black Nissan Navara was stopped at Llanteg , having travelled 200 miles from Wokingham in Berkshire .
Police said : “ The occupants were unable to account for their reasons for travel .
Vehicle turned around accordingly , both occupants reported . ”
South Wales police arrested a motorist who was allegedly caught speeding at 140 mph on the M4 at Bridgend and then provided a positive test for cannabis .
Where members of the public refuse to listen to advice , officers can issue penalty notices of £ 60 , which will rise to £ 120 if they have previously received a fixed penalty notice under the same regulations .
In some parts of England , tourism chiefs cautiously opened their doors to visitors at some other national parks and beaches , but warned that people may be turned away if hotspots become too busy .
The South Downs national park , on the south coast of England , said people could enjoy its rolling hills and chalk cliffs but that they must “ observe the three Rs by exercising restraint , responsibility and respect ” .
It urged people to avoid the popular hotspots and to stay two metres away from anyone not in the same household .
The National Trust , which oversees 500 historic houses , castles , parks and gardens in England , Wales and Northern Ireland , and nearly 800 miles of coastline , is preparing to reopen its larger car parks in England next week after opening more than 250 smaller ones since Wednesday .

Coronavirus: China asks foreign diplomats to stay away until June 1 .
2020-05-16 11:19:34 +00:00 .
Foreign embassies in China have been advised to postpone the return of diplomats and personnel rotation for a further two weeks until June 1 to reduce the risk of importing new coronavirus cases from overseas , according to multiple diplomatic sources .
The news comes after the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on April 3 advised foreign diplomats to China currently outside the country not to return until May 15 , after earlier prohibiting all foreigners , including those with visas and residence permits , from entering the country .
In a reply to the Post ’s request for comment on the matter , the ministry said it appreciated the “ strong support and cooperation ” of foreign embassies with regards to China ’s measures to contain the coronavirus and appealed for their continued backing amid “ great pressure to prevent imported infections ” .
While China has largely brought Covid-19 under control at home , the deadly disease continues to wreak havoc elsewhere .
As of Saturday morning , there had been over 4.5 million confirmed cases around the world and more than 307,000 deaths .
Beijing is desperate to prevent a second wave of infections as it sets about rebooting its stalled economy .
Photo : AFP
More
Beijing is desperate to prevent a second wave of infections as it sets about rebooting its stalled economy .
“ China hopes foreign embassies continue to understand and cooperate with China ’s epidemic - prevention measures , and consider such factors as journey safety and work demands when arranging the return and rotation of diplomatic personnel , ” the ministry said .
“ China is dedicated to providing a sound living environment for foreign diplomats in the country . ”
Some diplomats have complained that Beijing ’s restrictions on movement are excessive and contravene the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 , which guarantees the free passage of envoys and diplomatic personnel .
Business communities have also called for the travel bans to be relaxed , saying they have made it impossible to continue with their normal activities .
In a bid to appease some of those concerns , Beijing and Seoul recently established a fast - track immigration mechanism to make it easier for Chinese and South Korean businesspeople to travel between the two countries , while a similar system involving China and Singapore is under discussion .
Talks also got under way this week between Beijing and Berlin that would establish a fast - track system for employees of German firms to re - enter China on special flights .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : China asks foreign diplomats to stay away until June 1 first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Warren Buffett slashed stake in Goldman Sachs, exited Travelers .
2020-05-16 03:56:04 +00:00 .
Warren Buffett ’s stock moves for the first quarter are out .
According to a regulatory 13 - F filing for the first quarter ended March 31 , Berkshire Hathaway ( BRK - A , BRK - B ) trimmed its stake in Goldman Sachs ( GS ) in the quarter , selling around 10 million shares to last hold 1.92 million shares .
Berkshire also slightly reduced its position in JPMorgan Chase ( JPM ) , selling 1.8 million shares , to last hold 57.7 million shares .
Elsewhere , Berkshire exited its stakes in Travelers ( TRV ) , selling 312,379 shares , and Phillips 66 ( PSX ) , selling 227,436 shares .
Buffett added to Berkshire ’s position in PNC ( PNC ) , snapping up 526,930 shares to last hold 9.19 million shares in the regional bank .
Warren Buffett , CEO of Berkshire Hathaway , speaks to the press as he arrives at the 2019 annual shareholders meeting in Omaha , Nebraska , May 4 , 2019 .
( Photo by Johannes EISELE / AFP ) ( Photo credit should read JOHANNES EISELE / AFP via Getty Images )
More
During the first quarter , Buffett was a net seller of equities during the first quarter as the COVID-19 pandemic wreaked havoc on the economy .
Meanwhile , Berkshire ’s massive cash pile grew to $ 137.263 billion , up from $ 127.997 billion , but Buffett said Berkshire has n’t acted “ because we do n’t see anything that attractive to do .
That could change very quickly or it may not change , ” Buffett said during Berkshire ’s annual shareholders ’ meeting in early May.
During the annual meeting , Buffett also confirmed that after the first quarter Berkshire sold all of its stakes in airlines , including American Airlines ( AAL ) , Delta ( DAL ) , United Continental Holdings ( UAL ) , and Southwest Airlines ( LUV ) .
“ I would n’t normally talk about it , but I think it requires an explanation , ” he said on Saturday .
“ We were not disappointed at all in the businesses that were being run and the management , but we did come to a different opinion on it , ” he said at the time .
Because of the COVID-19 pandemic , airlines are among the industries being hurt by an exogenous shock “ far beyond their control , ” Buffett said .
He later added that if Berkshire owned airlines now , “ it would be a tough decision to decide whether to sustain billions of dollars in operating losses when you do n’t know how long it ’s going to happen or occur . ”
Julia La Roche is a Correspondent at Yahoo Finance .
Follow her on Twitter .
Find live stock market quotes and the latest business and finance news
For tutorials and information on investing and trading stocks , check out Cashay Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , LinkedIn , and reddit .

Hedge Funds Headed to Quarantine Stocks in First Quarter Turmoil .
2020-05-15 23:06:27 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
As the world began to go into lockdown , the biggest money managers loaded up on quarantine stocks .
Netflix Inc. , Peloton Interactive Inc. , Amazon.com Inc. and Zoom Video Communications Inc. were some of the most sought - after names in the first quarter , according to regulatory filings .
George Soros , Stan Druckenmiller and Philippe Laffont were among the managers piling into such stocks .
The filings offer a glimpse into the maneuvering by major hedge fund managers and other investors during the coronavirus - fueled market rout that brought the global economy to a standstill .
The SP 500 Index fell 20 % in the first three months of 2020 , its biggest drop in more than a decade .
So far this year , each of the four stocks has soared double - digits as people hunkered down and reverted to television binging , at - home workouts , online shopping and video chatting .
Notably , Zoom surged 157 % through May 15 .
However , exercise company Peloton saw its big rally after a first - quarter decline , and is now up about 70 % for the year .
Here are the key takeaways from hedge funds ’ first - quarter 13F filings : Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. trimmed two of its bank holdings , JPMorgan Chase Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , during the period as the pandemic started to roil financial markets .
Larry Robbins ’s Glenview Capital Management and Zeke Capital Advisors LLC , a money manager for ultra - wealthy families , were among those that drastically cut equity positions .
Glenview slashed its stock market exposure during the first quarter , disclosing it held U.S.-traded equities with a stock market value of $ 3.7 billion at March 31 , down from $ 11.4 billion at year end .
Activist investor Bill Ackman confirmed he had built a $ 25 million stake in private equity powerhouse Blackstone Group Inc. during the quarter .
Meanwhile , Tiger Global Management trimmed its stake in alternative asset manager Apollo Global Management Inc. for the first time in five quarters .
Managers were mixed on Facebook Inc. in the quarter .
D1 Capital piled into the social - media giant , boosting its stake by 70 % , and Soroban Capital Partners and Baupost Group started new positions .
However , Coatue Management and Viking Global Investors both slashed their holdings .
Facebook slumped 19 % in the first quarter as its advertising business took a hit in the crisis .
Aaron Cowen made a contrarian bet of sorts during the first quarter , as his Suvretta Capital Management acquired shares in several consumer - focused chains .
The list includes a $ 55 million bet on TJX Cos . , parent to TJ Maxx discount stores .
See the full TOPLive blog here .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Ford CEO Jim Hackett: 'There are two truths' to restarting auto plants, economy .
2020-05-15 13:46:38 +00:00 .
Click here to See Video Tension over how to reopen the U.S. economy amid the coronavirus outbreak has embroiled the nation in recent days , as President Donald Trump has differed publicly with the nation ’s top infectious - disease expert , Dr. Anthony S. Fauci , over how to weigh public health risks against economic pain .
Jim Hackett , the president and CEO of Ford Motor Company ( F ) , advocated on Thursday for a middle ground , telling Yahoo Finance that workplace safety must remain a priority while warning that a prolonged economic shutdown could cause more damage than the virus .
“ There are two truths here and they ’re in competition , ” says Hackett , whose company will begin reopening North American auto plants on Monday .
“ It ’s one of the biggest paradoxes . ”
“ One is we ’ve got to have safe work environments , and the other is if we keep the economy turned off we ’re going to have a fate worse than some of the things that the virus is causing , ” he adds .
“ So what you ’ve got to do is ameliorate the conflict . ”
Hackett sounded an optimistic note about containment of the virus but cautioned that a more virulent strain could emerge .
“ When the infection rate starts to drop , there ’s a benefit to us , ” he says .
“ But also the virus is going to start to mutate a little bit .
This is why we still have to be wary and watchful . ”
The Trump administration released a set of conditions for coronavirus containment last month that it recommends states meet before they reopen , including a 14 - day downward trajectory in new cases or positive test rates .
As of May 7 , 30 states had begun or were set to reopen , but most of them had n’t met the conditions outlined by the White House , the New York Times reported .
Trump this week renewed his push for the U.S. to speed up its reopening , but Fauci , the country ’s top infectious - disease expert , told a Senate committee this week that “ consequences could be really serious ” if states move too soon .
Hackett said he and Bill Ford , the company ’s executive chairman , spoke with governors and members of Congress nationwide about plans to reopen , including Democratic Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer .
“ There were lots of discussions across the country , ” he says .
Hackett made the remarks to Yahoo Finance Editor - in - Chief Andy Serwer during a conversation that will air on May 18 in an episode of Yahoo Finance ’s “ Influencers with Andy Serwer , ” a weekly interview series with leaders in business , politics , and entertainment .
Before he joined Ford three years ago , Hackett served as the interim director of athletics at the University of Michigan , his alma mater , where he hired highly sought after head coach Jim Harbaugh .
For two decades before that , he served as the CEO of Grand Rapids - based office furniture company Steelcase , gaining a reputation as a turnaround specialist .
To begin reopening auto plants on May 18 , Ford has set up facilities to ensure social distancing among employees , and it plans to institute daily and weekly cleanings , as well as non - contact temperature screenings for workers when they arrive at a building , according to a guidebook released by the automaker .
Competitors General Motors ( GM ) and Fiat Chrysler ( FCAU ) also reportedly plan to reopen U.S. facilities in the coming weeks .
Last week , Michigan Gov. Whitmer announced that automakers could reopen manufacturing on May 11 but extended the state ’s stay - at - home order to May 28 .

IPhone Maker Foxconn’s Profit Gutted by Smartphone Slump .
2020-05-15 11:56:09 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. forecast another revenue decline after profit plunged by the most on record in the March quarter , when the novel coronavirus froze much of its China production and walloped global smartphone demand .
Apple Inc. ’s most important manufacturing partner recorded an 89 % decline in net income to NT$2.1 billion ( $ 70 million ) in the first three months of 2020 .
Chairman Young Liu told analysts Friday the company anticipates a single - digit percentage decline in revenue in the June quarter from a year earlier .
That would be its third consecutive quarterly sales drop .
The earnings decline drove home to extent to which Covid-19 and the resultant global lockdown has chilled electronics demand and driven up costs for upstream producers like Hon Hai that had to adapt to supply chain disruption .
Global shipments of smartphones fell at their fastest rate on record in the first quarter , hitting the assembler ’s sales even though its main production facilities managed to return to full seasonal staffing levels around mid - March .
On Friday , Hon Hai , known also as Foxconn , said it incurred costs related to the pandemic of NT$10 billion , though some of that will be compensated by the Chinese government .
It added it had put the worst of the slump behind it but the company , which gets half its sales making iPhones and devices for Apple , warned smartphone demand remained uncertain .
What Bloomberg Intelligence Says Hon Hai ’s outlook for strong sequential and year - over - year 2Q sales growth for enterprise and computing products and components -- comprising about 55 % of sales -- supports our outlook of a w - shaped recovery from the pandemic , in our view .
But demand cuts may mount in 3Q and drive down sales before a rebound takes hold in 4Q. - Matthew Kanterman , analyst
Click here for the research .
Read more : Global Smartphone Market Suffered Worst Contraction in History Revenue slid almost 12 % to NT$929.7 billion , according to Bloomberg News ’ calculations based on previously reported monthly sales numbers .
Liu warned that uncertainty will continue to dog electronics demand into the second half , after a singularly poor first quarter .
Production at many of Apple ’s Asian partners ground to a halt in early 2020 after efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19 kicked in .
That resulted in severe shipping delays for devices and led to component supply bottlenecks .
Consumers also sheltered at home , hammering retail sales .
At one point , Apple shuttered all 42 retail outlets in China , a critical market for the company , followed by store closures in other countries .
While shops in China have reopened , most of its international ones have not .
Covid-19 has also delayed product development and launches .
Apple ’s four upcoming redesigned iPhones with 5 G will come out several weeks later than usual -- but still within the fall window -- Bloomberg News has reported .
In May , Apple failed to provide a forecast for the first time in more than a decade .
Foxconn has already slashed its 2020 revenue projections in the wake of the pandemic .
It told investors in April that it still had time to help Apple launch new iPhones in time for the holidays , but cautioned the schedule could be disrupted if the pandemic persists .
( Updates with revenue forecast from the first paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Separated by coronavirus, Malaysian mothers in Singapore freeze breast milk for babies at home .
2020-05-15 06:17:22 +00:00 .
By Joseph Campbell and Daveena Kaur SINGAPORE / JOHOR BARU , Malaysia ( Reuters ) - Before the outbreak of coronavirus this year , Malaysian accountant Jazerel See used to travel regularly between her country 's southern state of Johor and neighbouring Singapore where she worked , going home once a week to her parents and her seven - month - old boy .
But after Malaysia banned citizens from travelling overseas in mid - March in a bid to stem the coronavirus outbreak , See and hundreds of other Malaysian women were cut off from their families if they wished to continue working , and unable to breastfeed their newborn children .
See said the women , communicating via social media , then pooled together funds to ship supplies of frozen breast milk to their babies back home .
" We sought help from all the mummies and we tried to save and share the cost , because it 's not really cheap to send back the milk , " 32 - year - old See told Reuters .
In Johor Baru town , her mother Wai Lan Moy said : " ( I like that the baby ) is drinking her mother 's breast milk , because drinking breast milk is better for the baby 's immune system .
It 's easier to take care ( of the baby ) that way . "
An estimated half a million Malaysians live and work in Singapore , with thousands commuting regularly to the wealthy city - state from Johor .
Although Malaysia allowed citizens to return , they have to undergo two weeks of quarantine .
Many of those working in Singapore were reluctant to go back fearing the spread of the virus as well as the risk of losing their jobs .
Singapore also set up restrictions of its own in late March , barring or quarantining visitors .
" If I go back ( to Malaysia ) now , I might bring back the virus , " See said .
" I keep telling myself to just bear it for a moment to ensure a better future . "
So far , four shipments totalling about 7,000 kilogrammes of milk have been sent from 200 mothers in Singapore , Johor state lawmaker Andrew Chen Kah Eng said .
Such a shipment has never been made before , he said .
" I talk to officers from CIQ ( Customs , Immigration and Quarantine ) , they have never done that before , even from agriculture department , ministry of health and also customs , they have never done that before .
" They are willing to help . "
Singapore has among the highest number of coronavirus infections in Asia , with more than 26,000 cases , mainly due to outbreaks in cramped migrant - worker dormitories .
Malaysia had the highest number of cases in Southeast Asia until mid - April but the daily rise in infections has steadily declined since the curbs were imposed , with a total of around 6,800 reported so far .
( Reporting by Joseph Campbell in Singapore , Daveena Kaur in Johor Bahru ;
Writing by Rozanna Latiff ;
Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan )

'Don't fight the Fed' mantra is working: Stifel strategist .
2020-05-13 17:56:45 +00:00 .
The Stifel strategist who predicted April ’s market rally says the best strategy right now is to be like the Road Runner : “ Step out of the way and let anvil hit Wile E. Coyote — the economy .
And then after that , the Fed will act and then you can move on , if you 're the investor , ” Barry Bannister , head of institutional equity strategy at Stifel , tells Yahoo Finance .
He said that the major Fed Reserve measures announced over the last couple of months in reaction to the fallout of COVID-19 are already reflected in the broader market , which has been trading sideways over the last couple of weeks .
“ We 're dealing with a real problem here in that the Fed reaction function is going to lag , and right now they 're not doing incrementally more , which means that whatever they 've done is already reflected in the price . ”
Just days prior to the March 23 lows , Stifel predicted the SP 500 ( ^GSPC ) would rise to 2750 by April 30th .
Weeks later the firm raised that target to 2950 , which the large cap index hit during intraday trading on April 29th .
That day Stifel downgraded the index to a Neutral rating .
“ One of the reasons for our downgrade to neutral , is we had upgraded before the big Fed actions just as they were starting to rumor them , and then after they did them , there was just no reason to still be positive .
The market reflected all that good news , ” said Bannister .
US Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell ( Photo by Eric BARADAT / AFP )
( Photo by ERIC BARADAT / AFP via Getty Images )
More ‘ Two mantras really working ’ “ What ’s happening in the market is — two mantras really working , one is ‘ do n't fight the Fed ’ and the other is ‘ the market 's always four months ahead of GDP ’ , ” said Bannister .
Bannister says the current market is reflecting an inflection upward in GDP sometime later this summer — around August .
“ If neither of those happen , if the Fed pulls back , or if the economy ca n’t inflect , then the market 's going to go down .
Otherwise it 's just going to trade sideways here and to just digest its recent gains , ” said Bannister .
“ If we get the recovery of the consumer by August , then what will happen is the market rising now is justified , but it still has to consolidate in the near term until we have more visibility post August , ” he added .
Near term Bannister sees a greater risk of deflation rather than inflation , despite the Federal Reserve measures to buy corporate debt .
“ Deflation tends to be destructive to credit .
That would really , you know , start to affect the market and call the Fed out .
The Fed is buying bonds , but there 's just no way they 're buying enough to offset a sharp rise in bankruptcies and defaults , ” said Bannister .
Ines covers the U.S. stock market from the floor of the New York Exchange .
Follow her on Twitter at @ines_ferre
Read more :
It would be unprecedented for a bear market to be this short :
Wells Fargo Strategist
Recent rally could be a ‘ bear market trap ’ :
Miller Tabak Strategist
A view from the trading floor : Algorithms having ‘ outsized impact ’ amid coronavirus impact
Find live stock market quotes and the latest business and finance news
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , LinkedIn , and reddit .

India's cleaner lockdown air could save 650,000 lives .
2020-05-12 09:12:50 +00:00 .
Coronavirus Article Bar with counter ..
More India ’s annual death toll would fall by 650,000 if the fall in air pollution levels driven by the country 's lockdown are maintained , according to a new study .
Researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology ( IIT ) Delhi and two Chinese universities – Fudan University and Shenzhen Polytechnic – compared the average annual concentration of six pollutants in 22 Indian cities with the reduced average concentration during the first month of lockdown .
They discovered the pollutant measuring indicator - air quality index ( AQI ) - fell by a third between March 16 and April 14 .
Lower ratings on the index - up to around 25 - are good , while higher ratings mean there is more pollution .
The study found the greatest reduction in AQI in the north of India at 44 per cent while New Delhi enjoyed the highest improvement of any major city , with its average air quality improving by about half .
In November , the AQI surged to over 900 in New Delhi , far exceeding the 25 safe limit set by the World Health Organization .
In April , it regularly fell below 20 .
“ If this low concentration during one month persisted for a year , it would save the lives of 650,000 people , which would have otherwise been lost due to air pollution health effects , ” said Sri Harsha Kota , one of the report ’s authors from IIT Delhi .
Pollution hanging over New Delhi 's India Gate before – and clear skies after – the lockdown - Reuters
More India has recorded over 67,000 coronavirus cases and has been under nationwide lockdown since March 24 as the authorities tried to control the spread of the disease .
Only essential travel is permitted and industry was ground to a complete halt until May 3 , when the Indian government announced a resumption of some manufacturing and construction work .
Experts believe the air quality rate will now worsen again as the government continues to slowly reopen its ailing economy - India usually leads the world in pollution - linked deaths and up to 2.3 million people die prematurely each year , according to the Global Alliance on Health and Pollution .
Pollutants worsen a range of chronic ailments , including lung disease , diabetes and pneumonia .
Air pollution rates are at their worst in India ’s densely - populated megacities , where industry is usually centred and vehicle congestion is some of the worst globally .
Eighteen of the 20 cities with the highest air pollution in the world are found in India , according to a Greenpeace study .
Protect yourself and your family by learning more about Global Health Security

Nintendo Switch Parts Supply Limited by Lockdowns in Asia .
2020-05-12 07:04:05 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Nintendo Co. is struggling to procure some essential components for its popular Switch console due to government - imposed lockdowns in Malaysia and the Philippines , likely limiting its production this year , according to people familiar with its operations .
Malaysia is Nintendo ’s source for printed circuit boards while the Philippines provides passive components that attach to those PCBs .
Both nations have had to limit business operations and travel as part of their efforts to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus .
Malaysia officially relaxed its lockdown on May 4 , opening up for most forms of economic activity , however states delayed easing rules due to lack of preparation while companies struggled to get all their workers tested before resuming work .
A Nintendo spokesperson declined to comment .
Read more : Philippines Mulls Selective Lockdown in Capital After May 15
The restrictions will make it difficult for Nintendo to exceed its forecast of 19 million Switch unit sales in the current fiscal year , a disappointing projection that triggered a slide in its stock on Friday .
The Switch is out of stock in many markets around the world after the record - breaking success of Animal Crossing : New Horizons , the biggest gaming hit of the coronavirus era .
Nintendo ’s forecast would mean a decline in Switch sales from the 21 million consoles it sold in the last fiscal year , despite the device ’s soaring popularity .
Restoring full production capacity will largely depend on how the pandemic situation develops , and Nintendo may have to delay the release of some games and services if things do n’t improve , President Shuntaro Furukawa said on its earnings call on Thursday .
“ We expect the Covid-19 impact on our production to go away by summer , ” Furukawa said .
Rivals Microsoft Corp. and Sony Corp. plan to introduce new iterations of their consoles later this year , putting pressure on Nintendo to capitalize on the Switch ’s popularity before the competition arrives .
The Xbox and PlayStation teams source components from other countries and are therefore not affected by these particular lockdowns .
The PCB and passive components shortage is now Nintendo ’s most pressing supply constraint , after it previously had to also contend with a production bottleneck in China .
Limited access to DRAM , for which Nintendo has to compete with smartphone makers , could also have an impact in the latter half of the year .
“ The inventory may recover in the summer , but we may see shortages again toward the year - end because Nintendo would n’t be able to produce enough units for the shopping season , ” said Hideki Yasuda , an analyst at Ace Research Institute .
Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte is considering reducing some of his country ’s lockdown measures from May 15 , a spokesman said last week , while the Malaysian government has decided to continue what it terms a relaxed lockdown until June 9 .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

China announces new raft of US imports eligible for trade war tariff exemptions .
2020-05-12 06:54:37 +00:00 .
China has published a second batch of products to be exempt from US trade war tariffs , effective from May 19 for one year .
There are 79 products in total on the list published on Tuesday by the Ministry of Finance , including rare earth mineral ores , aircraft radar equipment , semiconductor parts , medical disinfectants , and a range of precious metals , chemical and petrochemical products .
Importers in China must apply to the General Administration of Customs within six months of the announcement to be considered for waivers .
The first batch of exclusions were announced in September 2019 , and included major agricultural commodities such as soybeans and pork , as well as petrochemical products .
The announcement comes at a heated moment for the United States and China , with sharpened rhetoric prevalent on both sides .
US President Donald Trump last week threatened to tear up the phase one trade deal , signed in January , should China not increase its imports of US goods , as per the purchasing agreement element of the deal .
With supply chains on both sides severely disrupted by the coronavirus outbreak , bilateral trade shrunk in the first four months of the year .
China ’s imports of US goods fell by 11.1 per cent in April , customs data released last week showed , and by a colossal 85.5 per cent in March .
Given that China imported much fewer goods from China in 2019 than it did in 2017 – the baseline scenario used to map out the terms of the trade deal – it is nowhere near meeting the targets .
An editorial in the state - run Global Times on Monday suggested that dissenting voices within and advising the Chinese government were pushing for renegotiation of the phase one deal , a suggestion that was swiftly shot down by Trump at a press conference in Washington on Monday .
Among the other US goods to be offered exemptions from trade war tariffs are recombinant human insulin , halogen light bulbs for trains , ships and aircraft , electricity generators , flight data recorders , certain digital cameras , and gold ore .
Top negotiators including China ’s Vice - Premier Liu He and US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer held a telephone call on Friday , the first since the deal was signed in January .
A Chinese statement carried by state media said they would “ create favourable conditions to implement the phase one trade deal ” , at a time when superpower tensions have been running high over the handling of the coronavirus pandemic .
In a statement posted to its website , the Office of the US Trade Representative added that “ both sides agreed that good progress is being made on creating the governmental infrastructures necessary to make the agreement a success . ”
More to follow Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article China announces new raft of US imports eligible for trade war tariff exemptions first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Coronavirus: Hong Kong government to expand HK$80 billion wage subsidy scheme to include seniors and vulnerable .
2020-05-12 06:09:27 +00:00 .
An HK$80 billion ( US$ 10.25 billion ) wage subsidy scheme launched to safeguard businesses hit by the coronavirus pandemic will be extended to include more seniors and vulnerable groups , the Hong Kong government has said .
On Tuesday the city ’s leader Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet - ngor also announced that the application process would open later this month .
Under the scheme , which was unveiled last month , the government is to pay up to 50 per cent of employees ’ salaries for six months , capped at HK$9,000 a month .
Some 1.5 million people , who have been contributing to their Mandatory Provident Fund ( MPF ) accounts , are estimated to be covered by the scheme .
But that requirement has sparked criticism , as workers aged 65 or above , and therefore exempted from the MPF scheme , would be excluded .
From later this month employers will be able to apply for the scheme .
Photo : Felix Wong
More
Lam said applications would open for three weeks on May 25 , and the subsidies for the first tranche – for June , July and August – would be handed out to employers three to four weeks after an application was made .
She also announced several measures to improve the scheme , notably allowing employers to apply for the subsidy for around 60,000 employees aged 65 or above – as long as they have an MPF account .
About 12,000 long - term employees in the construction and catering industries , who had previously been excluded from the employment support scheme , would also be eligible , on top of industry - specific relief measures , Lam added .
Certain relaxations would also be given for 215,000 self - employed people to apply for a one - off lump sum of HK$7,500 , provided they had activated their MPF account before the end of March .
Taking into account that some industries , including tourism , had already been badly hit in the initial stage of the outbreak last year , Lam said the government had also relaxed the rule to allow employers to apply for subsidies based on wages recorded in one of the months between December and March , instead of January to March .
Such a move would offer them a greater chance to secure a larger sum of subsidy , the chief executive said .
“ The application process will be very easy .
Employers will only need to file a form through the internet to make an authorisation , and then they can sit back and allow us to do the calculation , ” Lam said .
She added that the government would shoulder the administration fee for MPF trustees , and employers did not need to handle any application fees .
Speaking ahead of her weekly cabinet meeting , Lam also announced the extension of the subsidy scheme for specific industries .
Green minibus and ferry drivers would be eligible for a monthly subsidy of HK$6,000 for six months , and the laundry industry , which was missed out from previous schemes , would also be given a boost .
Further details were expected to be made public at a press conference on Tuesday afternoon .
Help us understand what you are interested in so that we can improve SCMP and provide a better experience for you .
We would like to invite you to take this five - minute survey on how you engage with SCMP and the news .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : Hong Kong government to expand HK$80 billion wage subsidy scheme to include seniors and vulnerable first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

ZoomInfo Moves Ahead with Rare Crisis-Era U.S. Tech IPO .
2020-05-12 01:38:21 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. , a business - intelligence platform owned by private equity firms , plans to go public as early as June in what could be one of the first technology listings since the start of the coronavirus pandemic , according to people with knowledge of the matter .
The Vancouver , Washington - based company may launch a virtual roadshow to market its stock as soon as this month , said the people , who asked not to be identified because the information is private .
ZoomInfo on Monday updated its filing for an initial public offering with its latest financial information .
Following its February 2019 deal to combine with DiscoverOrg , the company ’s revenue almost doubled to $ 102 million in the first quarter compared with the same period last year , according to the filing .
Meanwhile , its net loss for the quarter shrunk to $ 5.9 million from $ 40 million in 2019 .
The company also said in the filing that in April , the annualized value of its contracts grew 87 % compared with the same month last year .
No decision is final and ZoomInfo ’s IPO plans could still change .
A representative for ZoomInfo declined to comment .
The plans come after Kingsoft Cloud Holdings Ltd. , the third - biggest cloud service provider in China by revenue , jumped 40 % in its U.S. trading debut after raising $ 510 million last week .
Kingsoft was the first major listing in the U.S. since mid - March , when the Covid-19 outbreak was declared a pandemic and trading volatility skyrocketed .
A technology IPO would be a positive sign in an otherwise dreary market for offerings .
Companies that were planning to go public this year , such as Airbnb Inc. and Procore Technologies Inc. , have instead turned to private funding .
ZoomInfo listed the size of its planned offering as $ 500 million in a filing in February , a placeholder figure that will likely change .
Raising $ 500 million would make ZoomInfo ’s IPO the second - biggest in the U.S. since the pandemic began , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
Zoom Confusion
If the IPO is successful , ZoomInfo will have to make sure traders can tell it apart from several other companies with similar names , including Zoom Video Communications Inc. , the video - conferencing system that ’s become a work - from - home staple for many during the coronavirus crisis .
That company ’s shares are up 140 % this year , valuing it at about $ 46 billion just over a year after its own IPO .
Mobile hardware manufacturer Zoom Technologies Inc. changed its ticker to ZTNO from ZOOM to avoid confusion , after its stock rallied 890 % in the first quarter and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission suspended its trading .
ZoomInfo plans to use the symbol ZI for its shares , which will list on the Nasdaq Global Select Market .
Previously known as Zoom Information Inc. , ZoomInfo was last year combined with DiscoverOrg , another business - to - business data platform for sales and recruitment .
DiscoverOrg ’s backers include TA Associates and Carlyle Group Inc.
JPMorgan Chase Co. and Morgan Stanley are leading the share sale , a filing shows .
Proceeds from the offering will be used to redeem preferred shares , repay debt and for general corporate purposes .
( Updates with filing in third paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Musk 'restarting' California Tesla factory, defying authorities .
2020-05-11 23:06:07 +00:00 .
Tesla chief Elon Musk said Monday he is resuming production at the company 's California auto assembly plant , defying authorities and escalating a feud over the Pacific state 's pandemic shutdown .
Musk made the announcement on Twitter after several days of raging online and a lawsuit seeking to resume operations at the factory .
" Tesla is restarting production today against Alameda County rules , " Musk said in a tweet .
" I will be on the line with everyone else .
If anyone is arrested , I ask that it only be me . "
Musk said , moments later , that state officials had approved the reopening but that the move had been blocked by local authorities .
" California approved , but an unelected county official illegally overrode , " he said .
" Also , all other auto companies in US are approved to resume .
Only Tesla has been singled out .
This is super messed up ! "
Musk 's move comes amid rising disputes over the pace of easing the lockdowns imposed by states to contain the deadly coronavirus outbreak .
Over the weekend , Musk threatened to move Tesla 's headquarters and factory out of California as a result of the standoff .
" Frankly , this is the final straw .
Tesla will now move its HQ and future programs to Texas / Nevada immediately , " Musk tweeted as part of a series of angry messages just before the company filed the lawsuit seeking to force authorities to allow a reopening .
Following Musk 's statement , Alameda County 's office of emergency services said Tesla was only allowed to maintain " minimum basic operations " until officials approve a plan and that it expected a proposal to be submitted by the company later in the day .
" We are addressing using the same phased approach used for other businesses which have violated the ( shutdown ) order in the past , and we hope that Tesla will likewise comply without further enforcement measures , " the county statement said .
- Wooed by Texas -
On Monday , US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin voiced support for Tesla 's effort to reopen its factory and a Texas county said it would welcome the firm .
" I agree with Elon Musk , " Mnuchin , the top US economic official , told CNBC television .
" He 's one of the biggest employers and manufacturers in California , and California should prioritize doing whatever they need to do to solve those health issues so that he can open quickly and safely . "
The US administration is pushing a reopening of the world 's largest economy , battered by weeks of lockdown , even as the daily death toll has generally been rising by 1,000 to 2,500 in recent weeks .
In Texas , one local official wasted little time in trying to woo the fast - growing car firm .
Hidalgo County said Musk is more than welcome in the state , tweeting a letter from senior local official Richard Cortez .
" We no longer have a shelter - at - home mandate . "
Cortez said in his letter .
"
All that is necessary is for you to pick a location . "
The official noted that Musk is already familiar with South Texas because a launch facility of his other company , SpaceX , is nearby .
Musk has been raging on Twitter for days about his unsuccessful efforts to restart production , claiming the ban violates " our Constitutional freedoms just plain common sense ! "
In late April , he delivered an expletive - laden diatribe during an earnings update call in which he dubbed coronavirus restrictions " fascist . "
Tesla CEO Elon Musk said the company 's electric car plant will restart production in violation of lockdown rules in Alameda County , California
A Tesla employee cleans a car outside a Tesla showroom in Burbank , California , March 24 , 2020

Bitcoin Crashes as Halving Hype Loses Impetus Over the Weekend .
2020-05-11 17:56:31 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Bitcoin appears to be running out of steam just before one of the most anticipated milestones among cryptocurrency enthusiasts .
The largest digital token tumbled over the weekend , declining about 13 % to around $ 8,675 .
It rebounded to about $ 8,840 as of 10 a.m. in New York trading on Monday .
The decline took place ahead of a closely watched technical event known as its halving , when the rewards miners receive for processing transactions will be cut in half as soon as later today .
“ It ’s likely that we ’re going to see increased volatility through May , with the pandemic , ongoing stimulus measures and the halving , ” Rich Rosenblum , co - head of trading at crypto market maker GSR , said in an email .
“ The record open interest for futures and options at multiple exchanges adds to this .
The market is in a state of information and position overload , exacerbating the potential for volatile moves . ”
Still , Bitcoin ’s up near 25 % this year and among its newest fans is famed macro investor Paul Tudor Jones , who said he ’s been buying Bitcoin as a hedge against the inflation he sees coming from central bank money - printing .
“ It ’s not the great cure for all the monetary ills , et cetera .
It ’s a great speculation , ” Jones , the founder and chief executive officer of Tudor Investment Corp. , said in an interview with CNBC on Monday .
He ’s got over 1 % of his assets in Bitcoin , though it might end up being a top performer within his portfolio , he said .
Earlier : Paul Tudor Jones Buys Bitcoin With Reminder of Gold in 1970s
Bitcoin , which is a little more than a decade old , has not stood the test of time , said Jones , but the digitization of the world “ clearly benefits ” the token .
He sees an expanding user base for the cryptocurrency , a hallmark of every bull market , and anyone buying Bitcoin is betting that universe will continue to broaden .
“ We ’re watching the birthing of the store of value -- and whether that succeeds or not , only time will tell , ” said Jones in the interview .
“ What I do know is , every day that goes by and Bitcoin survives , the trust in it will go up . ”
In the near - term , many Bitcoin are looking forward to its halving , which happens about every four years and slows down the rate at which new tokens are created -- an intentional feature designed to control inflation .
Bitcoin has historically bottomed 459 days prior to the halving , risen into the event and jumped after , according to research from Pantera Capital .
Post - halving rallies averaged 446 days .
Here ’s a QuickTake on what Bitcoin ’s “ halving ” means .
“ So far , Bitcoin ’s third halving looks different to prior events and there does n’t appear to have been such a sustained price run - up , ” said Payal Lakhani , director of equity research and product development at CME Group , in a blog post Friday .
“ Given the reward change has been known since Bitcoin ’s inception in 2009 , and having already seen two such events , investors may have already incorporated the supply adjustment into their models and taken positions accordingly . ”
The impact of Covid-19 has resulted in lower volumes as some participants focused on non - crypto markets , and some mining operations being affected by these difficult market conditions , Lakhani said .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Rental Giant Hertz Could Be in Bankruptcy in Weeks, Destroying What's Left of the Used Car Market .
2020-05-11 15:47:50 +00:00 .
From Road Track Car rental giant Hertz is currently in talks with creditors in hopes of avoiding a bankruptcy that could be just weeks away , Bloomberg reports .
The company has been given until May 22 to come up with $ 400 million for holders of its asset - backed securities , but the greater problem the company faces is a little more complex .
The company ’s most obvious avenue for raising cash would be to sell down parts of its rental car fleet , which numbers above 560,000 cars in the U.S. , not counting its international operations .
But the resale values of the rental vehicles it currently owns have been pummeled by the tremendous drop in sales caused by the pandemic , dropping by 70 percent in April alone .
Bloomberg reports that Hertz ’s two main banks , Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc , have to decide in the next two weeks whether to allow Hertz to try to raise money by selling off large parts of its fleet or let it go into bankruptcy .
Neither option would be particularly pleasant , and there are still plenty of unknowns even in these scenarios .
Bloomberg describes Hertz ’s situation as a three - way standoff : Holders of Hertz ’s asset - backed securities could delay pressuring Hertz to sell down its fleet for a short period of time , but they will need Hertz ’s banks to promise to make them whole .
The banks , in turn , may not want to take on such a risk , which requires them to bet that either the rental car business or used car prices return to some normal operating level .
Meanwhile , controlling shareholder Carl Icahn holds a 39 percent equity stake in the rental company .
Bloomberg says that he could put in more money to keep Hertz afloat , but this once again is dependent on a belief that the rental car business will recover to some extent in the very near future .
In a bankruptcy , Bloomberg notes , equity holders ’ claims would be behind those of creditors , which is not an incentive for Icahn to put in more money at the moment .
One possible way out of this is banks letting Hertz issue more debt , but this once again relies largely on a bet on a domestic and international recovery in the car rental business in the near future .
Otherwise , it only buys the company a short period of time before an eventual bankruptcy .
That bankruptcy could flood the used car market with several hundred thousand cars , whose value is likely to take a substantial hit at a time when used car lots are already quite full and demand is low .
Bloomberg notes that used car prices dropped 11.4 percent from March to April , while sales were merely a quarter of pre - outbreak levels .
Dealer auctions that would liquidate the cars have also cut back operations on dropping demand by used car lots .
Hertz itself sells used cars as a part of its business , but how long it would take to sell over 500,000 used cars in the U.S. alone , at prices reasonably close to their market value , is perhaps a question of years , not months .
Like airlines and hotels , the car rental companies are facing a massive drop in business as a result of the coronavirus pandemic , the end of which may not be in sight for quite some time .
The car rental business largely depends on airline travelers , who at the moment are not doing any domestic traveling that would keep rental companies afloat .
Among other things , this means that Hertz is not the sole rental company in trouble , but at the same time there is little prospect of any federal bailout for rental car companies , unlike airlines .
You
Might Also
Like

Saudi Aramco Weighs Staggering Payments for Sabic Deal .
2020-05-11 10:48:49 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Saudi Aramco is in early talks about further staggering payments for a controlling stake in local petrochemical giant Saudi Basic Industries Corp. as the collapse in oil prices hammers its finances and causes the government to slash spending .
State - owned Aramco is weighing pushing out payments for the 70 % holding in the petrochemicals maker and reducing the size of the initial installment to the Saudi Arabian sovereign wealth fund , known as the Public Investment Fund , according to people with knowledge of the matter .
Aramco is also weighing whether it ’s possible to reduce the $ 69.1 billion price tag , one of the people said , asking not to be identified because the information is private .
The talks are in early stages and it ’s unclear whether an agreement will be reached , the people said .
The company is seeking to preserve cash as it confronts a historic rout in crude prices and a burgeoning list of spending obligations .
It reaffirmed a commitment to pay $ 75 billion in dividends this year , while in March it pledged to cut capital expenditure to save cash .
Saudi Arabia announced a slew of austerity measures on Monday to cope with the coronavirus pandemic and oil - price rout .
The kingdom will triple value - added tax and cut a cost - of - living allowance for government workers as part of a $ 27 billion plan to boost revenue and reallocate spending for health care and to aid businesses .
Aramco ’s shares fell 0.8 % to 30.90 riyals as of 1:17 p.m. in Riyadh .
Third Restructuring
The Sabic deal has already restructured from the original terms .
Under the current agreement from October , Aramco is set to pay a third in cash , down from half previously .
The deadline for paying the rest was extended by four years until September 2025 .
The initial pact involved Aramco paying 123.4 riyals ( $ 32.85 ) a share for Sabic , whose share price has slumped to 73 riyals since that was agreed in March 2019 .
A representative for Aramco said it does n’t comment on rumor or speculation .
A representative for Sabic said the matter is between the oil producer and the PIF .
A representative for the sovereign wealth fund did n’t immediately respond to requests for comment .
On Sunday , Reuters reported that Aramco is looking to restructure the deal , citing people familiar with the matter .
Raising Cash
The acquisition of Sabic is a key part of Aramco ’s strategy of moving downstream from oil production into chemicals .
It will also serve as a way to help the PIF raise cash to fund its investment plans .
With crude prices down more than 50 % since the start of the year , Aramco is looking at alternatives to raise funds .
The company has hired JPMorgan Chase Co. to review the potential multibillion sale of a stake in its oil pipelines , people familiar with the matter said in April .
Aramco is set to report its first - quarter results on Tuesday , giving investors an insight into how March ’s oil - price war has impacted earnings .
( Updates with spending cuts in fifth paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Stage Stores Files for Bankruptcy, to Wind Down If No Buyer .
2020-05-11 03:55:47 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Stage Stores Inc. , the owner of rural department and discount stores including Goody ’s , Peebles and Gordmans , filed for bankruptcy protection , adding to the toll of traditional retailers felled by too much debt and the economic shocks of the coronavirus .
The retailer will simultaneously seek buyers for parts or all of its business while it also begins to wind down operations , Stage Stores said in a statement late Sunday .
It will start reopening stores that have been closed by the pandemic , with about 557 outlets scheduled to open May 15 to conduct liquidation sales .
The company ’s Chapter 11 filing in its home city of Houston listed assets and liabilities of between $ 500 million and $ 1 billion each .
While the retailer had been seeking to bolster its financial position in recent months , “ the increasingly challenging market environment was exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic , which required us to temporarily close all of our stores and furlough the vast majority of our associates , ” President and Chief Executive Officer Michael Glazer said in the statement .
“ Given these conditions , we have been unable to obtain necessary financing and have no choice but to take these actions . ”
As of 2019 , Stage Stores was running more than 700 department stores in 42 states under banners that also included Bealls and Palais Royal , according to regulatory filings .
Most of the department stores are in small towns and rural communities , while the off - price stores such as Gordmans are predominantly located in mid - sized , non - rural Midwest markets .
The company is composed partly of chains that previously went bust .
Stage Stores was formed in 1988 when managers of Palais Royal and several venture capital firms acquired Bealls and Palais Royal , which date from the 1920s .
Bankruptcy Sales
They bought Peebles Inc. in 2003 , and added the “ Goody ’s ” name in 2009 from Goody ’s Family Clothing Inc. through a bankruptcy auction .
In 2017 , the company acquired some assets of Gordmans Stores Inc. , also through bankruptcy .
A second group of about 67 stores are expected to reopen May 28 and the remainder will open on June 4 , the company said in its statement .
The company will stop winding down operations at certain locations if it receives a viable going - concern bid , it said .
Kirkland Ellis is acting as the company ’s legal adviser while PJ Solomon is its investment banker .
Other professionals include Berkeley Research Group as restructuring adviser , AG Realty as real estate adviser and Gordon Brothers Retail Partners , which will manage inventory clearance sales .
The case is Stage Stores Inc. , 20 - 32564 , U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of Texas ( Houston )
( Adds reopening plan starting in second paragraph , CEO comment in fourth )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Cuomo says coronavirus death toll at lowest level since mid-March .
2020-05-10 22:15:45 +00:00 .
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said Sunday that the rate of coronavirus hospitalizations and the death toll has dropped to the lowest level since mid - March , when the shutdown began and before the state became the epicenter of the U.S. outbreak .
Cuomo said 207 people died Saturday , down from 226 deaths the day before .
Nursing homes accounted for 43 of those deaths .
On Sunday , Cuomo said all nursing home staff will now have to be tested twice a week .
He said if a nursing home can not provide adequate care for patients who test positive for the coronavirus , the facility must transfer the patient to a facility that can — if they can not find one , they must call the Department of Health , which will help them find another facility .
Cuomo also said nursing homes can not readmit coronavirus patients after they are discharged from the hospital until they test negative for the virus .
He said any nursing home that does not follow the new order will lose its license .
The governor said two additional children have died from a mysterious illness that could be linked to the coronavirus ; three other deaths from Pediatric Multi - System Inflammatory Syndrome were previously confirmed .
There are up to 85 children who have become ill from this rare disease .
An investigation is ongoing .
" This is every mother 's nightmare .
This is every parents ' nightmare .
No one knew about it .
Nobody was watching for it .
It 's the same story with this virus from day one , " Cuomo said at Sunday 's press conference .
Cuomo said some areas of the state can begin reopening as early as May 15 , if they meet certain criteria , including data indicating the spread in the area is under control ; in addition , whether the area can handle hospitalization and contract tracing if the coronavirus rate increases once again .
On Friday , Cuomo signed an executive order that extended the authority to " continue the suspensions and modifications of law , and any directives , not superseded by a subsequent directive , " until June 6 , according to CBS Albany affiliate WRGB - TV .
Meanwhile , Cuomo again appealed to the federal government to pass an economic stimulus to support state and local governments .
While encouraging Washington lawmakers to bail out " working " families rather than corporations , Cuomo proposed an " Americans First " law that companies must rehire all their employees to receive a bailout .
" There should be no subsidy for any corporation that lays off employees , period , " the governor said .
" Government should not subsidize their reduction of employees . "
" Sunday Morning " Matinee : " Moulin Rouge ! " with a cat
Cuomo says coronavirus hospitalizations at the same rate as the day shutdown order began
Honoring the mother 's going above and beyond during the COVID pandemic

Jackie Trad resigns from Qld cabinet .
2020-05-10 04:26:50 +00:00 .
Jackie Trad has fallen on her sword , resigning as Queensland 's deputy premier and treasurer .
The announcement came less than 24 hours after she said she was temporarily standing down from ministerial duties while she faced her second integrity probe in 12 months .
Health Minister Steven Miles has been appointed deputy premier , Cameron Dick will take on the role as treasurer and Kate Jones will manage state development .
Craig Crawford will become the new minister for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander affairs , while Gladstone MP Glenn Butcher has been promoted from the outer ministry .
Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk unveiled her new - look cabinet on Sunday , saying they were permanent appointments that would remain in place until the state election later this year .
" I 've acted swiftly and decisively , " she said .
" This is 100 per cent what Queenslanders expect of myself and my team , to be focussed on dealing with the health and economic crisis we have before us . "
But Opposition Leader Deb Frecklington said Ms Trad should 've been sacked six months ago , after she faced her first probe by the state 's corruption watchdog .
The Member for South Brisbane failed to properly declare the purchase of a $ 695,500 home in Woolloongabba , located near the Cross River Rail project she was overseeing at the time .
" Annastacia Palaszczuk leads a government that is riddled with integrity issues , and it starts at the top , " Ms Frecklington said .
Queensland 's Crime and Corruption Commission on Saturday confirmed it was investigating Ms Trad over allegations she interfered in the selection process for the principal of a new high school in her South Brisbane seat .
Ms Palasczcuk said Ms Trad 's decision to resign was based on the best interests of her family , the community and the party .
" She does not want there to be any distraction for the government as we respond to the COVID-19 crisis , " she said .

Elon Musk threatens to move Tesla headquarters to Nevada or Texas over shutdown .
2020-05-09 21:59:06 +00:00 .
Tesla will move its headquarters out of California “ immediately ” to Nevada or Texas , Elon Musk said via tweet Saturday morning .
In the same Twitter message , he threatened to abandon the company ’s Fremont auto assembly plant , depending “ on how Tesla is treated in the future . ”
In another , he said he would sue the county authorities .
His ire was roused by Alameda County , which ordered him not to reopen the Tesla plant until county public health officials lifted restrictions .
Current county stay - at - home orders addressing the COVID-19 pandemic run through May 31 , although that date could change depending on infection data .
The Tesla chief executive had told staff to prepare for a Friday afternoon factory reopening , in defiance of the court order .
Shortly after 1 p.m. Friday , the county issued a statement directed specifically at Tesla , stating the company “ must not reopen ” the plant .
The plant has been shut down since March 23 .
Like other companies , shutdowns have caused financial stress at Tesla as public health authorities attempt to balance protecting people from spread of the disease with the deleterious economic effects of business closure .
Musk engaged in a series of tweets with Tesla fans Saturday morning , in which he called the county action “ the final straw . ”
Musk has tangled with county officials before .
After a joint six - county Bay Area stay at home order on March 16 , including Alameda , Musk kept the plant open for nearly another week , until Fremont city police intervened . .
Musk tweeted Saturday morning that the “ unelected ignorant ‘ Interim Health Officer ’ of Alameda is acting contrary to the Governor , the President , our Constitutional freedoms just plain common sense ! ”
The target of that tweet apparently was Elaine Pan , interim head of the Alameda County Public Health Department , a physician with decades of experience in infectious disease .
Neither Pan nor Tesla responded to immediate requests for comment .
Gov. Gavin Newsom has eased statewide orders that had blocked manufacturing , but individual counties can set stricter standards .
The Bay Area orders are among the strictest in the state .
Tesla employs about 20,000 workers in California , about half at its Fremont factory .
Its headquarters are in Palo Alto , near Stanford University in the heart of Silicon Valley . .
Moving the entire headquarters with its executives and software programmers would be a major undertaking , although Musk himself could set up a new headquarters with a skeleton crew in short order .
Musk already is been planning new factories to supplement Fremont , although he has n’t identified where the money to build them will come from .
Besides a China plant , Musk plans an auto assembly plant in Germany and has hinted he ’ll build a new plant in Texas , perhaps to build an electric pickup truck .
The company has a major battery factory in Nevada , outside Reno .
A business exodus has been underway from California to Texas for years , but the reasons tend to revolve around taxes , labor costs and housing prices rather than disputes over public health .
In his Saturday tweets , Musk said the company 's experience setting up safety procedures in Shanghai during the coronavirus outbreak in China means it knows how to make Fremont safe , too .
“ Tesla knows far more about what needs to be done to be safe through our Tesla China factory experience than an ( unelected ) interim junior officer in Alameda County , ” he tweeted .
In a conference call with analysts on April 29 , Musk referred to stay - at - home orders as “ fascist . ”
As the virus began spreading through the U.S. , Musk tweeted on March 6 that “ The coronavirus panic is dumb . ”

Musk threatens to exit California over virus restrictions .
2020-05-09 20:43:46 +00:00 .
Tesla CEO Elon Musk threatened Saturday to pull the company ’s factory and headquarters out of California in an escalating spat with local officials who have stopped the company from reopening its electric vehicle factory .
On Twitter , Musk also threatened to sue over Alameda County Health Department coronavirus restrictions that have stopped Tesla from restarting production its factory in Fremont south of San Francisco .
“ Frankly , this is the final straw , ” he tweeted .
“ Tesla will now move its HQ and future programs to Texas / Nevada immediately . ”
He wrote that whether the company keeps any manufacturing in Fremont depends on how Tesla is treated in the future .
Musk has been ranting about the stay - home order since the company ’s April 29 first - quarter earnings were released , calling the restrictions fascist and urging governments to stop taking people ’s freedom .
An order in the six - county San Francisco Bay Area forced Tesla to close the Fremont plant starting March 23 to help prevent the virus ’ spread , and it was extended until the end of May.
Public health experts say the orders have reduced the number of new coronavirus cases nationwide .
California Gov. Gavin Newsom allowed the Bay Area counties to continue restrictions while easing them in other areas of the state , Emails seeking comments Saturday from Alameda County ’s public health officer and Newsom have not been returned .
On Friday , the Alameda County Public Health Department said it told Tesla that it did not meet conditions for a business to reopen .
“ The Bay Area started with a higher disease burden than the rest of the state , which may mean tighter restrictions than the rest of the state for some time , ” the department said in a statement .
“ Restoring all daily activities too soon risks a rapid spike in cases and would jeopardize the relative stability we ’ve seen in our health and hospital systems . ”
Despite the threat , it would be costly and difficult for Musk to quickly shift production from Fremont to another building in Texas or Nevada .
The Fremont facility , which was formerly run jointly by General Motors and Toyota , currently is Tesla ’s only U.S. vehicle assembly plant , and the company would lose critical production if it shut the plant down to move equipment .
But Musk plans another U.S. factory to increase output , possibly in Texas , and could move production once that plant is up and running .
For the moment , the continued closure of Fremont is costing the company revenue .
On a conference call last month , Musk said the company only has two auto plants , and the Fremont facility produces the majority of its vehicles .
“ We are a bit worried about not being able to resume production in the Bay Area , and that should be identified as a serious risk , ” he said .
The coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms for most people .
But it has killed more than 77,000 people in the U.S. , with the death toll rising .
Musk ’s tweets come as competing automakers are starting to reopen factories in the U.S. Toyota will restart production on Monday , while General Motors , Ford and Fiat Chrysler all plan to restart their plants gradually on May 18 .
Tesla is the only major automaker with a factory in California .
Musk 's threats came after a series of bizarre tweets earlier this month including one that said Tesla ’s stock price was too high .
Musk also posted parts of the U.S. national anthem and wrote that he would sell his houses and other possessions .
_ _ _ Michael Liedtke and Daisy Nguyen in San Francisco contributed to this report .

Japan wards off Chinese coastguard vessels caught chasing fishing boat in East China Sea .
2020-05-09 13:49:55 +00:00 .
Japan said it deployed patrols and issued warnings to a group of Chinese coastguard vessels spotted pursuing a Japanese fishing boat in the hotly contested waters of the East China Sea on Friday .
The Japan Coast Guard said on Saturday that four Chinese coastguard vessels entered waters close to the Diaoyu Islands – a group of uninhabited islands controlled by Tokyo and known locally as known as Senkaku – at about 4 pm .
The face - off took place about 50 minutes later , when two of the Chinese vessels began to chase a Japanese fishing boat in a stretch of water about 12 km ( 7.5 miles ) southwest of Uotsuri , one of the largest islands in the group , news agency Jiji Press cited the coastguard ’s regional headquarters in Naha as saying .
After the maritime agency sent patrol ships to the scene and issued a warning over the radio , the Chinese ships left the area , the report said .
The fishing vessel had three crew members on board at the time of the pursuit but no one was hurt , it said .
An unnamed official from the Japanese coastguard was quoted as saying that “ we do n’t think that a dangerous event has happened ” .
Earlier on Friday , China Coast Guard said on its official Weibo social media account that a fleet of its vessels had “ patrolled the territorial waters around the Diaoyu Islands ” .
The four Chinese vessels were in the region for about two hours , Japan ’s Kyodo News reported .
China ’s foreign ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
The uninhabited but resource - rich islands and reefs of the East China Sea have been the setting for territorial disputes between China and Japan for decades , though relations between the two Asian giants have been steadily improving in recent years .
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has visited Beijing twice since 2018 , while officials from the two sides are working to rearrange a state visit to Japan by Chinese President Xi Jinping that had been planned for last month but had to be postponed because of the coronavirus pandemic .
The Japanese government bought the Diaoyu Islands from a private owner in 2012 , but Beijing claims them .
Patrols by Chinese coastguard vessels are common in the area , with the latest – excluding Friday – happening on April 17 .
Beijing has also sought to assert its sovereignty in the region by imposing annual summer fishing bans in the East China Sea , including in the waters off the Diaoyu Islands .
This year ’s ban began on May 1 and runs until August 16 .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Japan wards off Chinese coastguard vessels caught chasing fishing boat in East China Sea first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Frontier Airlines becomes first U.S. airline to announce passenger temperature checks .
2020-05-09 10:39:01 +00:00 .
Travelers flying Frontier Airlines will have their temperature checked before boarding beginning June 1 .
The discount airline is the first U.S. carrier to announce the coronavirus safety measure and the second in North America after Air Canada .
“ The health and safety of everyone flying Frontier is paramount and temperature screenings add an additional layer of protection for everyone onboard , ” Frontier Airlines CEO Barry Biffle said in a statement late Thursday .
“ This new step during the boarding process , coupled with face coverings and elevated disinfection procedures , will serve to provide Frontier customers an assurance that their wellbeing is our foremost priority and we are taking every measure to help them travel comfortably and safely . ”
Frontier will be the first U.S. airline to check passengers ' temperatures .
The policy goes into effect June 1 .
More
All airlines have called for increased health screening to help convince travelers it 's safe to fly again .
Southwest Airlines CEO Gary Kelly earlier this week said the Transportation Security Administration should add temperature scans at the security checkpoint .
The TSA said no decisions have been made .
Biffle said Frontier believes the TSA should handle screenings and that the agency and airport authorities " may be working to lay that groundwork . ''
Until then , Frontier wants to do its own screenings of passengers .
Employees will be subject to the same standard , Frontier said .
How will Frontier 's new temperature scans work ?
If the touchless thermometer finds a passenger 's temperature to be over 100.4 ℉ , that person will be given a few minutes to rest .
If the second scan is still over that temperature , the passenger wo n't be allowed to board the aircraft that day .
More Frontier said passengers will be screened with touchless thermometers prior to boarding .
If a traveler 's temperature reading exceeds 100.4 ℉ , they will be given time to rest before receiving a second check if there is time before boarding .
If the second reading exceeds 100.4 ℉ , the passenger will not be able to board that day .
Frontier said it will work with passengers to rebook traveler on a later date or " otherwise accommodate the traveler ’s preferences with respect to their reservation . ''
Frontier passengers already must fill out a health acknowledgement form on the airline 's website or mobile app prior to check - in saying that neither they nor anyone in their household has had COVID-19 related symptoms in the last 14 days , that they will not head to the airport if they have a fever and that they acknowledge the airline 's new face mask requirement .
The face mask requirement begins Friday .
The new normal ?
US airlines announce requirements for passengers to wear face masks
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Frontier Airlines
to start checking fliers ' temperatures

Coronavirus pandemic may have started in October, says UK-French study .
2020-05-08 23:49:43 +00:00 .
The Covid-19 pandemic may have started as early as October , according to a new joint study of its genetic make - up by researchers at University College London and the University of Reunion Island .
The pathogen wreaking havoc on the world , known scientifically as SARS - CoV-2 , is thought to have made the jump from its initial host to humans at some point between October 6 and December 11 .
The findings – based on analysis of more than 7,000 genome sequence assemblies collected from around the world since January – will be published in a forthcoming edition of scientific journal Infection Genetics and Evolution .
Researchers studied the evolution of the mutations since they jumped to humans in order to work back their molecular clocks to a common starting point .
Separately , Chinese government information , seen previously by the South China Morning Post , suggests one of the first patients to emerge was a 55 - year - old resident of Hubei province on November 17 .
" Patient zero " has not yet been confirmed .
The theory the virus was circulating earlier than had been thought came after a French athlete who fell ill after competing in Wuhan in October said she had been told by doctors it was likely that she had caught Covid-19 .
The claim by Olympic silver - winning pentathlete Elodie Clouvel bolstered theories that coronavirus may have been carried around the world by people who had taken part in an international competition in the Chinese city .
Ms Clouvel , 31 , said that she and her 27 - year - old boyfriend Valentin Belaud , also a pentathlete , had fallen ill after the Military World Games , held in Wuhan between October 18 and 27 and featuring 9,308 athletes from 109 countries .
Other French team members have since spoken to the French press , mainly on condition of anonymity , to say they too had become sick .
" We all fell ill with the same symptoms , " Ms Clouvel , a military police officer , told RTL radio .
" We have recently had a contact with the military doctor , who said to us : ' I think you had [ it ] because there were a lot of people who were ill afterwards ' . "
The French army denies knowledge of anyone contracting the disease during the games .
This week , French doctors informed a 43 - year old man that a " mystery " disease he contracted on December 27 , which left him requiring oxygen , was Covid-19 after testing a frozen swab .
Until then , the first confirmed case in France was on January 24 .
The discovery of France 's potential " patient zero " prompted the World Health Organisation to urge other countries to investigate any other early suspicious cases .

Reopening small restaurants could mean closing streets to use for outdoor seating .
2020-05-08 22:31:53 +00:00 .
How do you handle seating in small restaurant implementing social distancing guidelines ?
To address this issue , the city of Cincinnati will close parts of 25 streets in Over - the - Rhine and Downtown Cincinnati so restaurants can expand outdoor seating , a move that will help restaurants without patio space keep tables farther apart for social distancing – and open as early as possible .
The announcement came one day after Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine announced restaurants can open outdoor space next Friday .
Indoor seating is n't allowed until May 21 , and only then with certain precautions .
Parties must be seated 6 feet apart or there has to be a physical barrier , for example .
Restaurants and bars have been closed by state order since March 21 in order to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus .
It 's put people out of work and shuttered restaurants who opted not to morph into carryouts .
" Restaurants are critical to the vibrancy in our urban core , " Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley said .
" Shutting down streets and lanes to expand dining so people can come back downtown and get delicious meals will be great . "
Tampa , Florida , announced a similar plan May 5 .
And cities in San Mateo County in California temporarily restricted traffic beginning late last month in areas so people could safely get together .
In Cincinnati 's Over - the - Rhine neighborhood , many of the restaurants are in small older buildings .
The neighborhood , along with Cincinnati 's Downtown , had been enjoying national attending for its vibrant restaurant scene until the pandemic hit .
The plan came together quickly with Cranley reaching out to The Banks restaurants and Cincinnati Center City Development Corporation ( 3CDC ) in Over - the - Rhine about what was needed .
" I knew this would be a desire in light of how small some of the restaurants are , " Cranley said Friday .
When he called to offer help , he learned they were already planning to ask .
The plan will quickly be expanded to neighborhood bars and restaurants , Cranley said .
Among the closures : 15th Street between Vine and Race Streets , which will help both Sacred Beast and Pepp and Dolores .
Julia Petiprin , one of the owners of Homemaker 's Bar in Over - the - Rhine said the plan will be a great help to her small space , which does n't have outdoor seating .
" To have this opportunity will really help up serve the community , " she said .
" Outdoor seating will be a way for us to bring the cocktail experience … to the community . "
Sampler art from Homemake 's Bar
More
The Banks Freedom Way will close , which will be helpful , said Jean - François Flechet , who owns Taste of Belgium , which has a location there .
" We lost Opening Day and the Flying Pig and a lot of events that bring people to The Banks , " he said .
Cranley said he is looking forward to dining out next Friday with his family and a few friends , joking that the " boss , " , his wife , would get to pick the place .
And , he added , he hopes to sign an order that the weather should be sunny and warm .
This article originally appeared on Cincinnati Enquirer : Reopening restaurants could mean closing streets for outdoor seating

Morgan Stanley-Led Group Fund Loan for Software Deal .
2020-05-08 17:20:28 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
A group of lenders led by Morgan Stanley had to use their own money to fund a $ 1 billion leveraged loan they had agreed to provide for Cornerstone OnDemand Inc. ’s acquisition of Saba Software Inc. , according to people familiar with the matter .
The loan , which was expected to be distributed to third - party investors , never launched for general syndication amid a freeze in the U.S. leveraged loan market in March due to the coronavirus pandemic , said the people with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be named because they are not authorized to speak publicly .
A representative for Morgan Stanley declined to comment .
A representative for Cornerstone OnDemand did n’t respond to requests for comment .
The loan is the largest among those with junk ratings that banks have been forced to take on their books since the March credit crunch to allow planned acquisitions to close .
In some cases , banks have already been able to offload the debt as the market gradually reopened .
The new issue market for risky corporate loans started to see some signs of life in early April after an almost one - month hiatus .
Activity has been slow since then , and many of those transactions have been deals meant to provide companies with additional liquidity so they can weather the shutdown .
Those have included bond - like yields and call protections .
Read more : Leveraged loan market restarts in April for liquidity lifelines
The term loan provided to Cornerstone OnDemand was boosted to just over $ 1 billion from $ 985 million to make up for a bigger original issue discount .
The acquisition ’s total value was reduced to about $ 1.3 billion at closing from about $ 1.4 billion at the time of the announcement , according to a company filing .
Upon completion , the maturity date of the company ’s 5.75 % convertible notes due 2021 was extended to March 17 , 2023 .
Morgan Stanley is administrative agent on the loan , which matures in seven years .
Additional underwriters party to the debt commitment letter include Credit Suisse Group AG , Bank of America Corp. , Deutsche Bank AG and Jefferies Financial Group Inc. , according to a filing .
Credit Suisse , BofA and Deutsche declined to comment .
Jefferies did n’t respond to a request for comment .
The debt was funded on April 22 , allowing the acquisition from an affiliate of Vector Capital to close , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
Moody ’s Investors Service assigned a B1 rating to Cornerstone OnDemand ’s loan , and SP Global Ratings gave it a B rating .
Cornerstone OnDemand is a learning and people development software - as - a - service ( SaaS ) provider .
Private equity firm Silver Lake Management LLC acquired a minority stake in the company , according to November 2017 statement .
Saba Software is a provider of both learning and performance management and recruiting software systems .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

88,300 truck drivers lost their jobs in April, and it's the biggest trucking job loss on record .
2020-05-08 15:21:29 +00:00 .
AP Photo / Marcio Jose Sanchez
Approximately 88,300 truck drivers lost their jobs in April .
It 's the biggest single - month loss of trucking jobs on record , according to data extending back to January 1990 .
April wiped out all trucking employments gained during the past five years and a half years , bringing the industry back to its employment numbers in November 2014 .
The rest of the April jobs report , which was released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics on May 8 , was similarly jarring .
Some 20.5 million payrolls were cut in April , which is 25 times larger than the worst monthly decline seen during the recession in the late 2000s .
Nationwide , the unemployment rate is now 14.7 % , its highest since the Great Depression .
While truck drivers have been deemed " essential " workers during the coronavirus pandemic , freight volumes and rates have collapsed this year .
Much of the economy , most notably manufacturing , is at a standstill .
As a result , trucks are n't moving .
Nearly three - quarters of all freight by weight is moved by truck in the US , so if goods are n't being purchased or moved , truck drivers are out of work .
Because of the coronavirus shutdowns , the trucking industry is on the cusp of a " freight cliff , " according to a Federal Emergency Management Agency report obtained by Politico .
The rate of moving goods via truck has fallen to the lowest levels seen since 2009 , Cass Information Systems said last month .
2019 's trucking ' bloodbath ' wo n't stop
The coronavirus is just the latest in challenges for the trucking industry .
Trucking had a rough 2019 , with drivers like Chad Boblett in Lexington , Kentucky , saying the industry is in a " bloodbath . "
In the first half of 2019 , around 640 trucking companies went bankrupt , according to industry data from Broughton Capital .
That 's more than triple the amount of bankruptcies from the same period the year before — 175 .
The 2019 trucking recession was also spurred by the decline in manufacturing .
The Institute of Supply Management said manufacturing contracted for several months last year ; in October , the index slipped to its lowest level since June 2009 .
But 2020 is making even the worst months of the 2019 trucking " bloodbath " look wimpy .
In August of 2019 , trucking companies slashed some 5,100 payrolls — the worst decline seen last year .
Meanwhile , 16 times as many drivers lost their jobs in April .
Do you work in trucking ?
Email rpremack@businessinsider.com .
Read the original article on Business Insider

When is the Mississippi State Tax Return Deadline in 2020? .
2020-05-08 13:53:29 +00:00 .
Normally , Mississippi individual income tax returns are due April 15 - -but these are not normal times .
In responding to the COVID-19 pandemic , the state has moved the deadline twice .
In March , the state moved the deadline to file and pay 2019 individual income tax to May 15 , 2020 .
First quarter 2020 Mississippi estimated tax payments were also extended to May 15 .
However , the due date was later extended to July 15 , 2020 .
Both first quarter and second quarter estimated Mississippi tax payments were also pushed back to July 15 .
This matches the due date for federal income tax returns and estimated tax payments for the first half of the year .
Filing Extensions Beyond July 15
If you 're unable to file your Mississippi tax return by July 15 , and you expect to owe state tax , then you should file for an extension to October 15 , 2020 .
The only way to file for a Mississippi extension is to file Form 80 - 106 .
Make sure you check the " Extension Payment " box and submitting the estimated amount of tax due .
If you do n't expect to owe a tax , then you do n't have to do anything .
That includes sending a federal tax return extension form to the Mississippi Department of Revenue ( they ca n't process the federal form ) .
Be warned , though , that an extension of time to file your return is not an extension of time to pay the tax due .
Any tax due after July 15 , 2020 , is subject to a late payment penalty of 0.5 % per month ( not to exceed 25 % ) and interest of 0.5 % per month .
Plus , a Mississippi return that is n't filed by October 15 is subject to late filing penalty of 5 % per month ( not to exceed 25 % ) .
EDITOR 'S PICKS Copyright 2020
The Kiplinger Washington Editors

US unemployment surges to 14.7% as record 20m Americans lose jobs in April .
2020-05-08 12:42:14 +00:00 .
More than 20 million people in the US lost their jobs in April and the unemployment rate more than trebled as the coronavirus pandemic shuttered the global economy , triggering a financial crisis unseen since the Great Depression .
The Department of Labor announced Friday that the US unemployment rate rose to 14.7 % from just 4.4 % in March and a near 50 - year low of 3.5 % in February before the US was hit by the virus .
A decade ’s worth of job gains have now been wiped out in under two months .
The latest jobs losses are the worst monthly figure on record .
The previous peak for unemployment was 10.8 % in 1982 and the largest monthly job loss , close to 2 m , came in September 1945 at the end of the second world war , when the country was demobilizing .
April ’s job losses also easily eclipsed the 800,000 jobs lost in March 2009 , the height of the last recession .
“ These are truly mind - blowing numbers , ” said Jason Reed , professor of finance at the University of Notre Dame ’s Mendoza College of Business .
“ We have n’t seen anything like this since the Great Depression . ”
The figures probably undercount the true impact of the outbreak as state unemployment offices have been overwhelmed and millions have yet to have their benefit claims accepted .
Related : ‘ Designed for us to fail ’ : Floridians upset as unemployment system melts down
“ The employment situation report confirms what we already know about the economy .
Regardless of the official number , we know that one in five workers filed for unemployment insurance .
This is a staggering , ” said Reed .
The scale of the crisis has overwhelmed state unemployment systems .
Friday ’s report follows the news on Thursday that another 3.2 million Americans filed for unemployment benefits last week .
The number of filings has been declining on a weekly basis but remains at a historically high level .
More than 33 million people have filed claims in the last seven weeks .
States including California , Ohio and Washington are weeks away from running out of funds to pay claims .
Washington state said it approved Ivan
Schierling ’s unemployment benefits on 27 March , but seven weeks later , he still has n’t received a payment .
In the meantime , bills are piling up for his credit card , healthcare and car payments .
“ This does n’t include just paying to live , ” Schierling , 34 , said .
“ I ca n’t pay for my milk or for gas to get around .
I ’m kind of frozen . ”
A $ 1,200 government stimulus check immediately went to paying off bills and his former employer does n’t know when they will be able to hire people back .
“ There ’s nothing I can do , I ’m just sitting , slowly running out of cash , ”
Schierling said .

‘Massive Adoption’ Conference Organizer Sued After Refund Delays .
2020-05-08 10:01:17 +00:00 .
The organizer of the canceled Massive Adoption crypto conference , which boasted a potential audience of 1,500 , is being sued over allegations that ticket refunds are too slow .
The putative class action lawsuit was filed Thursday in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado by Ashley Gentry , a would - be attendee of Massive Adoption , and alleges fraud , breach of contract , conversion and unjust enrichment .
The suit is calling for the organizer , Jacob Kostecki , to refund would - be attendees , as well as punitive damages and the costs of the lawsuit .
David Silver , the attorney who filed the lawsuit , told CoinDesk he was doing so pro bono , and would not be accepting payment or fees for the case .
Silver has long been active in the crypto space , and has filed suit against Cryptsy , BitConnect , YouTube and the Tezos Foundation in the past .
Crypto exchange Coinbase participated in a settlement connected to the Cryptsy case .
Related : Mysterious Company Files New Lawsuit Over Ripple ’s $ 1.1B XRP Sale
Also read : I Attended a Bitcoin Conference in VR and Still Got Sick Kostecki originally planned Massive Adoption for November 2019 , but rescheduled to late February 2020 .
He canceled the event by the end of January 2020 , however , and promised refunds to customers .
An update on his website said he had “ inadequate funding , ” and fewer guests and sponsors than he needed to maintain the event .
A later update on his website , which went down for some time between February 2020 and late April , said , “ Due to a series of local conditions , global markets , operator errors and mistakes the conference was cancelled late January . ”
Kostecki said in the update that he had begun processing refunds in March , and would continue through July 2020 .
A countdown clock on the updated site appears to be counting down to Friday , July 31 , 2020 .
Kostecki did not immediately return a request for comment .
Related : US Court Dismisses Lawsuit Over Riot Blockchain ’s Crypto Pivot
Silver told CoinDesk via email that , “ we approached Mr. Kostecki several weeks ago with a simple offer to resolve the debts he has already acknowledged he owes to the would - be Massive Adoption attendees . ”
In April 2020 , Silver tweeted that he would work with any attendees owed under $ 1,000 for free to ensure refunds .
At the time , Kostecki responded , “ If you believe that this will accelerate the relief to ticket holders instead of hinder it then that is your decision . ”
Kostecki declined the offer , Silver said .
In the new update to his website , Kostecki said “ the reaction to Covid-19 has delayed refunds vs internal milestones , ” a claim he has also previously made on Twitter .
See also : Coronavirus Concerns Cause Another Crypto Event to Be Postponed
In his most recent tweet , dated April 26 , on an account dedicated to Massive Adoption , Kostecki said “ Refunds continue being made , ” and that he had been in touch with “ dozens of people ” over the past two months .
He maintained that he would meet his July 31 deadline .
The lawsuit is being filed as a putative class action because some of the would - be attendees have small claims , and may not be able to file individual lawsuits , Thursday ’s filing claimed .
“ We are still willing to work with Mr. Kostecki on formulating a quick and simple resolution , but the fact that we filed the lawsuit shows that Mr. Kostecki ’s hollow Twitter promises are not enough , ” Silver said .
Related Stories

Tesla worldwide production suspended after China shutdown, reports say .
2020-05-07 21:08:15 +00:00 .
Tesla production has come to a worldwide standstill after the sudden shutdown of its China plant as US workers , meanwhile , prepare to reopen its California factory in the next week , according to reports .
Citing people familiar with the matter , Bloomberg News reported that the electric car manufacturer informed workers at its Gigafactory near Shanghai on Wednesday that their five - day Labor Day holiday would be extended .
They were supposed to return to work on Wednesday 6 May , but were told to stay home and prepare to return as soon as 9 May , according to people who spoke Bloomberg News under condition of anonymity .
In the company 's San Francisco plant in Fremont , meanwhile , workers reportedly returned on Wednesday to prepare for a planned reopening of some production lines between now and next week , according to The San Francisco Chronicle .
Tesla did not immediately respond to requests for comment , but in a statement to Bloomberg News said its Shanghai factory is conducting normal maintenance work and that the company made use of the Labor Day holidays to conduct production - line adjustments .
Chinese technology news site 36kr , meanwhile , reported that the shutdown was due to component shortages .
Some employees reportedly remained for equipment inspection , maintenance and repair at the China plant , which shut down earlier this year due to the coronavirus outbreak until being one of the first automakers to resume production .
The shuttering of its China factory has effectively ended worldwide production of Tesla vehicles as its plant in Fremont shut down on 23 March .
Citing a person familiar with factory operations , The San Francisco Chronicle reported that a handful of employees have returned to Tesla 's Fremont factory floor to put in additional safety measures to guard against coronavirus transmission ahead of a planned reopening .
The county 's shelter - in - place order was instituted on 17 March , and Tesla operated for nearly a week before halting production at the site .
Tesla CEO Elon Musk has been critical of coronavirus lockdowns as violating the constitutional rights of Americans , saying in a now - deleted tweet that the shelter - in - place orders were fascist and imprisoning people in their homes .
Read more
Elon Musk says video calls will ‘ definitely ’ be coming to Tesla cars
Grimes reveals meaning behind name of son with Elon Musk
Elon Musk tweet about ' too high ' share price sees Tesla plummet $ 14bn
Elon Musk claims coronavirus lockdown is ‘ fascist ’
Elon Musk tweets ' FREE AMERICA NOW ' in criticism of lockdown

Bahrain Offers Riskiest Eurobond Since Market Hiatus .
2020-05-07 13:26:40 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The Gulf kingdom of Bahrain is poised to become the lowest - rated country selling dollar bonds since the market hiatus triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic subsided in late March .
Only the strongest borrowers from the Middle East have tapped international markets since then .
Bahrain , which has a B+ rating from SP Global Ratings , has attracted more than $ 7.5 billion in demand so far after offering a substantial yield premium for its 10 - year notes and Islamic securities .
It has the added protection of a $ 10 billion bailout package provided by its regional allies .
“ This is the first pure high - yield sovereign and will be a litmus test of the market ’s risk appetite , ” said Todd Schubert , Singapore - based head of fixed - income research at Bank of Singapore Ltd.
“ Given the historical support that Bahrain has received from the other Gulf Cooperation Council countries , notably Saudi Arabia , we would anticipate demand for the deal . ”
Bahrain is probably the most vulnerable of the Arab energy producers to the collapse in oil prices .
As the coronavirus crushed demand for crude , the cost of protecting its bonds against default advanced to the highest level since June 2018 , before it won the bailout from its Gulf allies to prop up its struggling economy .
Brent crude is trading around $ 31.50 a barrel and has lost more than half its value this year .
Bahrain needs a price of $ 95.6 to balance its budget in 2020 , the highest in the GCC , according to the International Monetary Fund .
And the IMF estimates its gross official reserves will only be sufficient to cover around 30 days of imports this year , far below the critical level of three months .
Bahrain is offering investors 10 - year notes with initial yield talk of around 8 % , according to a person familiar with the matter , who is n’t authorized to speak publicly .
The island nation ’s $ 1.25 billion of notes due in 2029 traded at 7.26 % on Thursday , down 8 basis points from a day earlier .
It ’s also offering Islamic dollar securities maturing in 4 - 1/2 years at a yield of between 6.625 % and 6.75 % .
The prospect of debt defaults by weaker countries , particularly those in Latin America , does n’t bode well for the bond performance of single - B rated sovereign bonds , according to Carl Wong , head of fixed income at Avenue Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong .
Given Bahrain ’s wealthier neighbors , including Saudi Arabia , are also feeling the pain from the slump in oil , the yields are n’t attractive enough to compensate for the “ substantially higher default risk from Bahrain , ” he said .
“ Apart from widening budget deficit , its central bank is required to defend the dollar peg and its foreign - currency reserves will be depleted sooner than later , ” Wong said .
While junk - rated Guatemala and Paraguay issued $ 2.2 billion of bonds last month , Bahrain is the first single - B sovereign to come to market since the coronavirus rout subsided .
The Gulf kingdom took on a loan of about $ 1 billion to help repay a $ 1.25 billion Eurobond that matured at the end of March , Reuters reported last month .
“ Bahrain has historically adopted a pragmatic approach to pricing , ” said Doug Bitcon , head of credit strategies at Rasmala Investment Bank in Dubai .
“ The risk sentiment is good at the moment and pricing is significantly lower than a month ago . ”
( Updates with detail on order book size in second paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Wood willing to spend nine weeks in England camp .
2020-05-07 12:02:34 +00:00 .
England fast bowler Mark Wood has said he is prepared to spend more than two months away from his family if that 's what it takes to play this season 's home international series amid the coronavirus pandemic .
According to a report in the Guardian , the plan is for the squad to be kept in an ' isolation bubble ' so as to reduce the risk of players contracting COVID-19 , with daily temperature checks and swabs also part of the regime .
Plans are now being discussed for England to play six Tests , six ODIs and six T20s in just over two months from the start of July , with the centrepiece two three - Test series against the West Indies and Pakistan .
The start of the English cricket has been delayed until July 1 at the earliest by the pandemic , with the West Indies series already postponed from its original June dates .
Trying to salvage lucrative men 's internationals is the priority for the England and Wales Cricket Board , with chief executive Tom Harrison warning a complete wipeout of the 2020 season could cost the governing body £ 380 million ( $ 469 million ) .
England players can be with their families between matches during a standard home season , but Wood said what was being proposed was not that different from a tour schedule .
" I 'd be willing to do it , " he told reporters in a conference call on Thursday .
" Being away on tour for long periods of time you sort of get used to it .
" It would be very hard but as long as the environment is safe , my family are safe and everybody else there is safe then I 'd be willing to do it , " added Wood , currently in lockdown with his wife and baby son .
Some 30 players could be chosen for a run of six Tests behind closed doors staged at the Ageas Bowl , the headquarters of southern county Hampshire , and Manchester 's Old Trafford .
Both venues are considered to have greater ' bio - security ' than other Test match grounds thanks to the presence of on - site hotels .
- ' Desperate ' -
Meanwhile Wood said he and his team - mates were " desperate " to get going again .
" I think everybody in the squad , as long as the conditions are right , would be willing to come back and play some cricket . "
" We 're desperate to get going .
I know it would be a long stint and it would be hard
but it would be good to get back out there at the same time . "
Wood has played just 15 Tests in five years since a 2015 debut , with his career blighted by injuries , including ankle and side problems .
But he insisted the proposed new schedule , which could feature six Tests in seven weeks , would not put him at a greater risk of breaking down and that he had no expectation of appearing in all the matches even if they had been played as scheduled .
" I would n't have played every game , I 'd be in and out of the side to manage my workload and manage my body , " he said .
" I think that will probably be the same for the all the fast bowlers , as long as we 've got a good pool which I think we have at the moment .
Coming in and out of the side should n't be a problem . "
But Wood said it would feel strange being unable to go home if he was n't in the Test side .
" We 've never been in these circumstances before where we do n't know what 's going to happen on the down days – - I guess you ca n't just go home , so maybe you 'll have to train in small groups , " he said .
" It will be interesting to see how it does work . "

Locked-Down Drinkers Lose Their Thirst for Budweiser, Stella .
2020-05-07 11:57:34 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Anheuser - Busch InBev NV warned that its biggest three beer brands -- Budweiser , Stella Artois and Corona -- are bearing the brunt of a collapse in sales caused by the coronavirus .
Revenue from those brands dropped 11 % in the first quarter , about twice the rate of decline for the company ’s overall portfolio of more than 500 labels .
Shipments plunged the most in China , where the effect of Covid-19 lockdowns hit hardest because they started earlier than in the U.S. and Europe .
As demand evaporates amid a global shutdown of bars and restaurants , AB InBev and rivals Heineken NV and Carlsberg A / S are racing to find ways to cut costs to reduce the effect on profit .
So far AB InBev ’s more expensive products are suffering less , but longer - term , as the pain from a pandemic - induced recession spreads from blue - collar to white - collar workers , that could also harm the collection of niche premium labels that AB InBev has built up in past years .
AB InBev is in more of a pinch than Heineken and Carlsberg , given that it ’s also struggling to reduce its a pile of debt that stood at $ 96 billion at the end of 2019 .
The brewer said Thursday that shipments plunged 32 % in April .
Budweiser , Stella and Corona are in its mid - priced segment in the U.S.
Carlsberg said last week that it was already preparing for a new normal in which more profitable craft labels face more competition from cheaper alternatives .
An eye - opening moment for Chief Executive Officer Cees ’ t Hart was when he took a taxi to Amsterdam airport on April 26 on his way to Copenhagen : he was the driver ’s first customer in a month , and the 60 - euro fee his only income .
“ We need to cater to this with a slightly different portfolio -- it could be that for a while , we will have have a focus on economic brands , ” the CEO said .
“ The aftermath will much longer and maybe quite a bit more painful , with people not having the money to spend . ”
Cut - price beer is performing well in some markets , such as South Africa .
AB InBev was already seeing its inexpensive Lion Lager grow at a double - digit rate in the first quarter there before its production and distribution was halted to comply with a government mandate .
China ’s lockdowns were largely responsible for AB InBev ’s 9.3 % decline in total first - quarter shipments , and excluding that market , the decline was only 3.6 % .
That may bode badly for Europe and the U.S. , which entered lockdowns later .
While some craft breweries are seeing surging demand from drinkers looking to prop up local producers , catastrophic levels of unemployment in the U.S. in the longer term may eventually lead those consumers to switch to less glamorous labels such as Bud Light .
In recent years , demand for craft has surged , and the industry will be keen to see if that can continue .
In China , the market hardest - hit by Covid-19 restrictions in the first quarter , AB InBev ’s superpremium offerings outperformed the rest .
AB InBev , Carlsberg and Heineken , caught out by the trend in developed markets such as the U.S. and the U.K. , have collectively spent billions of dollars acquiring popular small brands like Devil ’s Backbone , Elysian Brewing , Lagunitas and London Fields .
” There will be permanent economic damage and the shape of this recession is likely to impact low - income workers hardest , and we probably will see some down - trading as a result of this , ” Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein , said by phone .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Schools may not reopen until September, Health Secretary warns .
2020-05-07 09:49:37 +00:00 .
Schools might not be able to reopen until September , the Health Secretary has said , suggesting coronavirus infection rates must go down further before education can resume .
On Wednesday , Matt Hancock said it was too early to consider the move and would make " no promises " that children will return to school before autumn .
His comments appear to contradict moves from a number of European governments which indicate that they do not consider children to pose a significant risk of spreading coronavirus .
Children in both Switzerland and Denmark have been encouraged to hug their grandparents in recent days .
UK officials are more cautious , however , with Public Health England ( PHE ) saying it is still working to understand the extent to which children drive community transmission .
Answering questions from the public on Sky News , Mr Hancock was unequivocal that opening schools would pose a risk .
" Although children do n't suffer the consequences of coronavirus nearly as much as adults – by and large , children are not affected by the disease – they still spread it , " he said .
" Colleges and schools are a place where lots of people from different households can mix .
That proved to be a real spreader . "
Mr Hancock acknowledged the difficulty faced by parents who are home - schooling their children , admitting that he is " terrible " at helping his own , aged six , 12 and 13 .
Asked whether schools would reopen before September , he said : " We do n't know because we have to see the progress of the disease , and we do n't know how people are going to behave in terms of the lockdown measures – which are the thing that have the biggest impact on getting the disease down .
" If there is something we can do before then , then we will – but I ca n't make any promises . "
Gavin Williamson , the Education Secretary , has promised a phased reopening of schools but has set no dates .
Meanwhile , Boris Johnson has indicated that primary school children would be the first to go back , a stance supported by the head of Ofsted , Amanda Spiellman .
However , last week Professor Chris Whitty , the chief medical officer for England , said there was " no doubt " that reopening schools would increase the rate of infection .
The ' R ' rate must remain below one for society to begin to return to normal , and is currently thought to be around 0.7 .
Scientists think schools have a less significant effect on the ' R ' rate than other lockdown measures , such as avoiding public transport , but can not be sure , meaning they do not know how low the ' R ' should be before risking reopening .
On Tuesday , Sir Patrick Vallance , the Government 's chief scientific adviser , suggested that reopening primary schools might be less of a risk than secondary schools because younger pupils are less likely to visit friends ' houses after school .
Later that day , First Secretary of State Dominic Raab warned that opening all the schools at once would risk a second virus peak .

EPR Properties Plunges 8% In Pre-Market On Earnings Miss; Dividend Pause .
2020-05-07 09:17:27 +00:00 .
EPR Properties ( EPR ) is falling 8 % in pre - market trading on Thursday after reporting weak first quarter results and announcing the suspension of dividend payouts and share buybacks .
Shares have now plunged 62 % year - to - date .
The Kansas - based real estate investment trust , that invests in ‘ experiential properties ’ like amusement parks , theaters , and ski resorts , reported Q1 FFO of $ 0.97 missing the Street expectations by $ 0.14 .
Meanwhile revenue of $ 151.01 M ( +0.3 % year - over - year )
also fell short of Street forecasts by $ 2.42M.
“ Today we are announcing further measures to ensure our liquidity , including the temporary suspension of our monthly cash dividend to common shareholders and a planned suspension of our share repurchase program ” commented CEO Greg Silvers , adding “ We do not take these steps lightly ; however , given the uncertainties that exist , we believed it unwise to burden our future with a higher leveraged balance sheet . ”
The dividend will be suspended following the $ 0.3825 common share dividend payable May 15 , 2020 .
The EPR board has previously declared monthly cash dividends during the first quarter of 2020 totaling $ 1.1325 per share .
Following the announcement , RBC Capital analyst Michael Carroll told investors : “ The 1Q20 report was soft , but at the same time , this was largely expected given the challenges that EPR currently faces . ”
He has a buy rating on the stock and $ 45 price target .
According to the analyst “ These headwinds will likely persist at least until the tenant base is able to re - open their respective operations . ”
Most notably EPR received only 15 % of its April rent payments , which Carroll believes is mainly from the attractions , ski resorts , and gaming segments .
He praised the company ’s decision to suspend the dividend and modify certain debt covenants , writing “ We believe both of these steps are necessary to ensure that the company can navigate the current uncertainty and , hopefully , reach a post - COVID operating environment . ”
Encouragingly , Carroll notes that the company has $ 1.2 billion of cash as of quarter - end , giving EPR about four years of liquidity at its current rate of cash burn .
Overall , the Street has a cautiously optimistic Moderate Buy consensus on EPR with an average analyst price target of $ 33 ( 25 % upside potential ) .
( See EPR stock analysis on TipRanks ) .
Related News :
Twilio Jumps 25 % in After - Hours Trading on 57 % Surprise Sales Leap
Beyond Meat Reveals New Summer Strategy , But Analysts See 30 % Downside Risk Ahead
Uber Cuts 3,700 Full - Time Jobs , CEO Dara Khosrowshahi Waives Salary
More recent articles from Smarter Analyst :

Nintendo profits jump on strong Switch demand .
2020-05-07 09:16:29 +00:00 .
Nintendo 's popular Switch console and blockbuster games including " Animal Crossing " fuelled a strong rise in profits and sales , which were also helped by players being stuck at home because of the coronavirus pandemic .
The Japanese gaming giant said Thursday it had notched up annual net profits of 258.6 billion yen ( $ 2.4 billion ) in the fiscal year to March , a gain of 33 percent from the year before .
Sales climbed nine percent to 1.3 trillion yen and the firm was quick to point out the success of " Animal Crossing : New Horizons " , which it said had enjoyed the strongest - ever debut for a Nintendo Switch title .
" Nintendo Switch performed very well without losing momentum , " the Kyoto - based firm said in a statement .
The conglomerate is one of a " handful " of major companies seeing significant business opportunities from the coronavirus outbreak , said Hideki Yasuda , an analyst at Ace Research Institute in Tokyo .
" Demand for video games has shot up among people staying home following the outbreak , " Yasuda told AFP .
Nintendo shares , which closed up 3.24 percent on Thursday before its earnings announcement , have surged some 27 percent since early March .
However , the firm also pointed to risks arising from the pandemic , including production and procurement of parts , and delays in Research and Development .
For the current fiscal year , the firm predicted reduced sales and profits , as the Switch enters a " crucial " fourth year -- past consoles began declining in popularity after three years .
Nintendo sees net profit at 200 billion yen for the fiscal year to March 2021 , down 23 percent from the previous year , with annual sales forecast at 1.2 trillion yen , down 8.3 percent .
Yasuda said the popularity of the latest " Animal Crossing " title should continue to drive profits for the current fiscal year .
The leisurely game has struck a chord with players around the world , many of them enjoying a virtual release from the restrictions on movement and social activity imposed to contain coronavirus .
" Pokemon Sword " and " Pokemon Shield " have also become multi - million - unit sellers , following big hits " Super Mario Maker 2 " , " The Legend of Zelda : Link 's Awakening " , and " Fire Emblem : Three Houses " .
Launched in March 2017 , the Switch has become a huge global seller , helped by innovative , family - friendly titles that have wowed critics and gamers alike .
Sales of both its regular Switch platform and the Switch Lite -- a smaller , cheaper version -- reached 21 million units for the fiscal year , well above its annual target upgraded three months ago .
Rival Sony is scheduled to report its annual results next week as it prepares to launch its next - generation PlayStation 5 console later this year .

More than 100,000 people were wrongly included on coronavirus 'shielding' list .
2020-05-07 06:11:29 +00:00 .
Coronavirus Article Bar with counter
More
Over 100,000 people were incorrectly told to fully " shield " and never leave their homes under the coronavirus lockdown , it has emerged .
Six weeks ago , the NHS said around 1.5 million of the most vulnerable people would be contacted and offered help and food deliveries to make sure they could stay at home completely for at least 12 weeks .
People in this category were supposed to be issued with strict instructions telling them to not only stay home at all times but also to minimise the time spent with others in their own households .
As a result , couples had to sleep in separate bedrooms and parents needed to keep a distance from their children .
Under the NHS criteria , those who should have been fully shielded include people who are immunosuppressed , those having certain types of cancer treatment and those with severe respiratory conditions .
However , hundreds of thousands of patients were only contacted weeks into lockdown .
Now Health Service Journal has reported that 107,000 people were wrongly issued with the advice when they should not have been classed as " high risk " , and are now being contacted and informed .
Coronavirus podcast newest episode
More
When the shielding policy was announced in March , ministers said 1.5 million people would be contacted within days and asked to isolate fully for 12 weeks because of the risk that they would suffer severe illness if they contracted coronavirus .
But just 900,000 were sent letters in the first instance , meaning hundreds of thousands who should have been given prompt advice and help such as food deliveries may have been placed at risk .
GPs were then asked to validate details of anyone on the list .
Around 107,000 patients who had been put on the list have now been taken off it and are being contacted by GPs to tell them they do not need to be " shielded " after all .
In recent weeks , the list has been expanded further , with GPs asked to identify hundreds of thousands more patients .
The initial Government guidance was for shielded people to stay isolated for 12 weeks , regardless of when they started .
But a bulletin sent to GPs this week says anyone being contacted now should be advised to stay shielded until June 30 " subject to ongoing review " .
In total , around two million people have now been advised to shield under the programme – but many letters have only been sent out in recent weeks , adding to the confusion .
Amid that chaos , letters were sent out to more than 10,000 dead patients .
Story continues GPs have been provided with template letters to contact patients incorrectly included on the vulnerable list when they should not have been classed as high risk .
Matt Hancock , the Health Secretary , indicated that the 12 - week shielding period may be extended further , telling Sky News : " We 've asked those being shielded to avoid as much contact as possible for 12 weeks .
" We may have to extend that 12 weeks , but we hope not to .
We may not be able to release some of these measures before a vaccine is available or if we have got the number of cases right down . "
A Department of Health and Social Care spokesman said : " People are added and removed from the shielding list regularly based on their GP 's clinical judgement , with 2.16 million patients identified as being clinically extremely vulnerable so far .
" GPs are be best placed to advise on the needs of their individual patients during this time and , if anybody is concerned they should be included on the list , they should discuss with their GP . "

HKEX chief executive Charles Li to leave at the end of his term in October next year .
2020-05-07 05:25:13 +00:00 .
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing chief executive Charles Li Xiaojia plans to leave the exchange in October next year , the bourse announced on Thursday .
Li told the board that he will not seek reappointment when his current term ends at the end of October 2021 .
HKEX has formed a selection committee , led by chairwoman Laura Cha to find a replacement .
The announcement came as HKEX missed profit forecasts , reporting a 13 per cent decline in net profit for the first three months of this year mainly due to investment losses amid the city ’s worst economic slump in decades because of the coronavirus pandemic .
A view of HKEX at Exchange Square .
Photo :
Nora Tam
More
The operator of Hong Kong stock exchange said net profit came in at HK$2.26 billion ( US$ 291.57 million ) for the January to March period , or HK$1.8 per share , compared to HK$2.6 billion a year earlier – the highest quarterly profit since its listing in 2000 .
Analysts polled by Bloomberg had estimated a profit of HK$2.77 billion .
Li said he is fully committed to continue leading the organisation until that date , or earlier , should a successor be appointed before such time .
The boss of the exchange pocketed HK$166.7 million ( US$ 21.4 million ) from the first sale of his personal stake in the operator of Asia ’s third largest exchange by selling 650,000 shares in December last year .
More to follow Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article HKEX chief executive Charles Li to leave at the end of his term in October next year first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Peloton Sales Jump 66% on Covid-19 Boost for Home Workouts .
2020-05-06 21:52:01 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Peloton Interactive Inc. said quarterly revenue soared 66 % and paid digital subscribers jumped 64 % after the Covid-19 pandemic spurred thousands of people to work out at home .
The company also raised forecasts , sending the shares up more than 4 % in extended trading .
The New York - based maker of fitness equipment and online exercise services said it generated $ 524.6 million in sales and grew to over 886,000 connected fitness subscribers , easily beating analysts ’ estimates .
“ Connected Fitness Product revenue exceeded our expectations across all geographies driven by strong demand for our Bike , ” Peloton said Wednesday in a letter to shareholders .
“ During the last few weeks of Q3 , we saw a significant increase in demand for our bike which has continued into Q4 so far . ”
The company also raised its fiscal 2020 revenue guidance to a range of $ 1.72 billion to $ 1.74 billion and sees 1.04 million to 1.05 million connected fitness subscribers .
For the current quarter , the company expects revenue of $ 500 million to $ 520 million , exceeding analysts ’ estimates , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
Peloton went public last year in the midst of a debate about whether the company could build a sustainable business selling expensive stationary exercise bikes and pricey subscriptions to digital workout classes .
The pandemic lockdown of millions of people has quelled dissenters for now and sparked a furious rally in the stock .
Before Wednesday ’s results , the shares closed at a record $ 38.03 and have gained about 34 % so far this year .
The company is now projecting 2020 fiscal - year earnings will be $ 30 million to $ 40 million , excluding interest , tax , depreciation , amortization and other items .
Still , expectations are now high , and when coronavirus lockdowns end , some users may cancel their Peloton memberships and choose to return to the gym .
The company noted that 95 % of its connected fitness subscribers were on month - to - month payment plans at the end of March .
It ’s also still losing money , based on more standard measures of profitability :
For the fiscal third quarter , Peloton reported a net loss of $ 55.6 million , compared with a loss of $ 38.6 million in the same period a year earlier .
Peloton generated $ 98.2 million in the fiscal third quarter from subscriptions , up 92 % year over year , and $ 420.2 million from product sales , up 61 % .
The company also said there was strong demand for its Tread workout machine before Peloton paused sales and deliveries on March 19 .
Sales of the treadmill wo n’t resume during this fiscal year , which ends June 30 .
The company said it is still facing a backlog of bike deliveries .
Customers ordering bikes are facing delays , and the company said it does n’t expect to “ materially ” improve delivery times by the end of the current quarter .
Peloton also said it averaged 17.7 monthly workouts per subscriber , up from 13.9 in the year - ago quarter and that its subscriber churn was the lowest in four years .
It said it is “ pleased ” with its liquidity and has $ 1.4 billion in cash and cash equivalents .
( Updates with month - to - month subscriber statistic in seventh paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Fact check: New York's abortion law doesn't allow any abortion 'up until birth,' as claimed .
2020-05-06 17:18:41 +00:00 .
The claim : New York 's Gov. Andrew Cuomo signed a bill legalizing abortion up until birth
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo has been center stage throughout the coronavirus pandemic , as his state is the epicenter of the U.S. outbreak with more than 263,000 confirmed cases and 16,000 deaths .
As Cuomo became a more recognizable face amid the pandemic , a viral Facebook post from March 25 claimed , " Human life is not disposable , said NY Governor Andrew Cuomo , the man who recently signed a bill legalizing abortion up until birth . "
More : Gov. Andrew Cuomo showed a mural of donated masks to New York .
Then social media weighed in
New York 's abortion law
New York state 's abortion law has previously been the subject of misinformation .
It became a talking point when Cuomo signed abortion legislation codifying Roe vs. Wade into state law in January 2019 .
New York 's Reproductive Health Act allows practitioners to perform an abortion on a patient who is 24 weeks or more away from the start of a pregnancy if the fetus is not viable or the abortion is necessary " to protect the patient 's life or health . "
The law does not define " health " or viability of a fetus .
The determination of these factors must be made by a " health care practitioner licensed , certified , or authorized " under state law , " acting within his or her lawful scope of practice . "
Before Cuomo signed the legislation , abortions after 24 weeks were allowed only when the mother 's life was at risk .
They otherwise were criminalized .
The Reproductive Health Act also removed abortion from the state 's penal code , and the statute still defines a person as a " human being who has been born and is alive . "
Killing a baby once born is still considered homicide .
Typically , pregnancies range from 38 to 42 weeks and babies are considered viable at 37 weeks .
Across the country : 43 states restrict abortion by gestational age .
19 states ban abortion at 20 weeks of pregnancy .
5 states ban abortion at 24 weeks of pregnancy .
18 states ban abortion based on viability of the fetus .
Alabama has the most restrictive abortion law in the U.S. , banning abortion at any stage of pregnancy and for any reason , including in cases of rape and incest .
The law is on hold after a federal judge ruled the ban " defies the United States Constitution . "
Virginia has a more lenient law than Alabama in terms of time frame and bans abortion at the third trimester , which begins at 25 weeks .
A 2018 report from the CDC found that in 2015 , there were 638,169 reported abortions in the U.S. Of those , 65 % of the procedures were performed at or before the eight - week mark and 91 % were performed at or before the 13 - week mark .
Only 1.3 % of abortions recorded were performed at 21 weeks or later .
Our rating : Partly false
We rate the claim in the Facebook post as PARTLY FALSE , based on our research .
While it is true that New York 's abortion law allows procedures after 24 weeks , there are rules guiding that procedure : if the fetus is not viable or if the health or life of the mother is at risk .
If medical practitioners determine that either of these factors are present , the mother can choose to have an abortion .
It is false to state or imply that any abortion can occur in New York " up until birth " as the social posts claims .
That is misleading .
Additionally , no state in the U.S. allows abortion " up until birth . "
Our fact - check sources : This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Fact check : New York law does not allow abortion ' up until birth '

‘Look at the alternative’ to lockdown, says woman whose brothers died with virus .
2020-05-06 17:03:20 +00:00 .
A woman who has lost two brothers to Covid-19 as a third recovers from the virus has urged Britons tired of lockdown to “ look at the alternative ” .
Olume Ivowi , a 46 - year - old business analyst from Luton , died on April 10 with Covid-19 .
His 38 - year - old brother Isi , who had Down Syndrome , lived in supported accommodation in Milton Keynes and died in hospital with the virus just over a week later .
The Ivowi family have suffered significant loss during the pandemic .
Pictured are ( left to right )
Osi Ivowi , Sir Ivowi , Isi Ivowi who died with Covid-19 , and Olume Ivowi , a 46 - year - old business analyst from Luton who also died with the virus ( Ivowi Family / PA )
More
Their older sister Ida described Olume as a very caring person and the “ unifier of the family ” .
She told the PA news agency : “ They were extremely close .
Olume was kind of responsible for Isi , he did the most for Isi in terms of making sure he was okay , keeping in touch with his carers and all of that .
“ He was the one who would make the phone calls to make sure everyone was okay , he would remember everyone ’s birthdays and did all the Christmas greetings , every single holiday but not just to his family but to his friends and extended family . ”
The 46 - year - old had been improving after contracting the virus several days earlier but suddenly felt unable to breathe on April 10 , dying hours later .
Ida Ivowi said : “ It just did n’t seem real because I felt because he was n’t taken to the ICU , he was n’t intubated , so he was definitely going to be going home .
“ I do n’t think a death that sudden is something anyone can wrap their heads around . ”
Mr Ivowi is survived by his wife Juanetta and daughter Mireille .
Ms Ivowi , 51 , said the family had been concerned about how they would tell Isi about his brother ’s death .
She said : “ We did n’t really want to tell him over the phone and were trying to figure out when it would be safe or if we could get permission for somebody to be allowed to go tell him , then we get the call that he too had been taken into hospital .
Three of the Ivowis , including Osi at left who is recovering , have contracted Covid-19 ( Ivowi Family / PA )
More
“ It certainly was n’t easier , but we were more informed about what was happening than with Olume where we had absolutely no idea what happened .
“ Isi was a gentle spirit , he loved life , he loved music , he had his routines , he had his social activities and loved creativity . ”
Ms Ivowi ’s third brother Osi , 50 , has also contracted Covid-19 but is making a recovery .
She said she was “ profoundly grateful ” for the medics who had treated her brothers and kept her informed as she lives in the US .
Ms Ivowi also urged people to respect the lockdown to prevent other families from going through her experience .
She said : “ Please respect the government guidelines , I know it has been extremely frustrating for people to be holed up in their houses and nobody knows what ’s going to happen but look at the alternative .
“ These are not just statistics and numbers , it ’s actually happening and it is killing people .
People need to take personal responsibility now . ”

Ontario Extends Hydro Relief Program, Emergency Orders For COVID-19 Crisis .
2020-05-06 15:05:53 +00:00 .
Ontario is keeping electricity rates down for a little longer as the province grapples with its current emergency lockdown measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 .
In a news release Wednesday , the province says it is extending its electricity rate relief program until May 31 .
This means Ontarians will be billed all day , seven days a week , at the off - peak rate , which is the lowest price available .
The temporary relief measure was put in place March 24 , a week after the province declared a state of emergency over the COVID-19 pandemic .
Ontario Premier Doug Ford says its meant to help families , farmers and small businesses who may be taking a financial hit with lockdown measures in place for nearly two months .
“ The extension of this electricity rate relief will leave more money in people ’s pockets until businesses can start to reopen and people can get back to work , ” Ford said in a statement .
RELATED Ontario Declares State Of Emergency Over COVID-19 Pandemic
Ontario To Reduce Hydro Rates Amid COVID-19
Pandemic
Doug Ford Teases Good News Coming On Parks , Cottages , Retail Stores Hydroelectricity rates have been a hot - button issue in the province for years as prices have continually climbed over a decade - long period .
Earlier this year , Finance Minister Rod Phillips said Ontario would spend an extra $ 1.6 billion on stabilizing rates for customers after previously setting aside $ 4 billion for this effort .
The Progressive Conservatives have also promised to keep any future hikes to hydro rates in line with inflation .
Ontario also declared it was extending all emergency measures in place for the COVID-19 pandemic until May 19 .
However , he ’s been hinting at easing restrictions in recent days while tempering expectations by adding the province is n’t out of the woods yet .
Watch : Ontario is “ leading the country ” in COVID-19 testing , Premier Ford says .
Story continues below .
This week , Ontario saw a drop in the number of hospitalizations and intensive care patients being treated for COVID-19 , which is a positive sign .
If this continues , the province could reopen for business in the coming weeks .
“ It ’s inevitable , if the numbers keep going down , ” Ford told reporters Monday in Toronto .
“ We ’re going to get the economy going based on health and science . ”
As of Wednesday morning , there are 18,310 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Ontario , resulting in 1,361 deaths .
Love HuffPost ?
Become a founding member of HuffPost Plus today .
This article originally appeared on HuffPost .

Ontario Extends Hydro Relief Program, Emergency Orders For COVID-19 Crisis .
2020-05-06 15:05:44 +00:00 .
Ontario is keeping electricity rates down for a little longer as the province grapples with its current emergency lockdown measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 .
In a news release Wednesday , the province says it is extending its electricity rate relief program until May 31 .
This means Ontarians will be billed all day , seven days a week , at the off - peak rate , which is the lowest price available .
The temporary relief measure was put in place March 24 , a week after the province declared a state of emergency over the COVID-19 pandemic .
Ontario Premier Doug Ford says its meant to help families , farmers and small businesses who may be taking a financial hit with lockdown measures in place for nearly two months .
“ The extension of this electricity rate relief will leave more money in people ’s pockets until businesses can start to reopen and people can get back to work , ” Ford said in a statement .
RELATED Hydroelectricity rates have been a hot - button issue in the province for years as prices have continually climbed over a decade - long period .
Earlier this year , Finance Minister Rod Phillips said Ontario would spend an extra $ 1.6 billion on stabilizing rates for customers after previously setting aside $ 4 billion for this effort .
The Progressive Conservatives have also promised to keep any future hikes to hydro rates in line with inflation .
Ontario also declared it was extending all emergency measures in place for the COVID-19 pandemic until May 19 .
However , he ’s been hinting at easing restrictions in recent days while tempering expectations by adding the province is n’t out of the woods yet .
Watch : Ontario is “ leading the country ” ...
Continue reading on HuffPost

Kansas farmer who donated a mask to Gov. Cuomo gets his own gift: A college degree .
2020-05-06 14:26:50 +00:00 .
ALBANY , N.Y. - A Kansas farmer has gotten more than he expected when he donated an N95 mask to New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo last month .
First , Dennis Ruhnke received plaudits from around the country for keeping four masks for his family and mailing his last one to Cuomo , who highlighted the kind gesture during his nationally televised coronavirus briefing on April 24 .
Then on Tuesday afternoon , Ruhnke received his college degree from Kansas Gov. Laura Kelly .
Ruhnke left college in 1971 and was two credits short from earning his degree in agriculture when his father passed away , the governor wrote on Facebook .
" He chose to leave school to take care of his mother and the family farm , " she wrote .
" Dennis ’ kindness and lifelong career in agriculture make him more than qualified to receive a degree . "
Post by GovLauraKelly .
Ruhnke and his wife , Sharon , both in their 70s , had five masks on their farm , but figured they would send the one they were n't using to New York , which at the time was facing a shortage of personal protective equipment as the nation 's epicenter for coronavirus .
Sharon has one lung , among other health problems .
" Enclosed find a solitary N-95 mask left over from my farming days .
It has never been used , " Ruhnke wrote to Cuomo .
" If you could , would you please give this mask to a nurse or doctor in your state ? "
Cuomo praised the selflessness during his daily COVID-19 briefings that are carried on national news channels , holding up the mask that the farmer had provided .
" You want to talk about a snapshot of humanity ?
You have five masks , " Cuomo said .
"
What do you do ?
Do you keep all five ?
Do you hide the five masks ?
Do you keep them for yourselves or others ?
No , you send one mask to New York to help a nurse or a doctor . "
Cuomo continued , clutching the mask : " How beautiful is that ?
I mean , how selfless is that ?
How giving is that ? "
Tennessee is giving out free masks to residents : The state hopes it will increase testing Dennis and his wife , Sharon talk on the front porch of their home near Troy , Kan. Friday , April 24 , 2020 .
Dennis , a retired farmer , shipped one of the couple 's five N-95 masks to New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo for use by a doctor or a nurse .
More
Ruhnke initially was so overwhelmed by the recognition that he did n't even want his last name revealed .
" I did n't want any notoriety , " he said at the time , noting he had missed Cuomo 's briefing that day .
But with the national media soon covering the story , Ruhnke started to provide his name to outlets .
Kansas State University President Richard Myers presented Ruhnke with the bachelor 's degree during the ceremony .
Tuesday night , Cuomo gave his congratulatory phone call , saying on Twitter : " Congratulations Dennis .
Your kindness continues to shine and inspire . "
Ruhnke said he did n’t write the letter to be in the spotlight , according to station KSN .
But he did offer some advice to others during these difficult times .
“ Many of those who wrote to me to thank me asked me how they could help .
Just pay it forward as much as you can afford to do so to honor all those who have lost their lives , ” Ruhnke said .
Follow Joseph Spector on Twitter : @GannettAlbany Happy birthday , Archie ! :
Harry and Meghan 's baby turns 1 in LA , stars in adorable Instagram video ‘ All night , my eyes are open ’ : After mass job losses , Americans forced to choose : Pay bills or buy food ?
This article originally appeared on New York State Team : Kansas farmer who donated mask to Gov. Cuomo gets college degree

U.S. Companies Cut a Record 20.2 Million Jobs, ADP Says .
2020-05-06 13:03:33 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Employment at U.S. companies plummeted in April by the most in records back to 2002 as coronavirus mitigation efforts brought business activity to a near standstill .
Private payrolls slumped by 20.2 million from a month earlier , according to ADP Research Institute data released Wednesday .
Employment in March was revised down to a 149,000 decrease from a previously reported 27,000 drop .
The report reflects data through April 12 to align with Labor Department figures , and does n’t include the impacts of Covid-19 that occurred later in the month .
The report is a harbinger of the government ’s April jobs report on Friday and adds to evidence of the pandemic ’s widespread economic devastation .
The Labor Department ’s figures are projected to show a record 21 million decline in total nonfarm payrolls and a jobless rate surging to 16 % .
“ Job losses of this scale are unprecedented .
The total number of job losses for the month of April alone was more than double the total jobs lost during the Great Recession , ” Ahu Yildirmaz , co - head of the ADP Research Institute , said in a statement .
The median projection in a Bloomberg survey of economists was for a 20.6 million April decline .
The ADP report showed service - provider employment declined 16 million , while payrolls at goods producers decreased more than 4.2 million .
Employment within trade industries , which include retailers , dropped 3.4 million .
Professional and business service employment fell almost 1.2 million .
Within the goods - producing sector , construction payrolls slumped by nearly 2.5 million and factory employment dropped almost 1.7 million .
Large businesses cut nearly 9 million jobs , while small employers -- those with fewer than 50 employees -- reduced employment by 6 million jobs , underscoring the dire situation for those enterprises .
Mid - sized businesses shed 5.3 million workers .
Meanwhile , franchise employment dropped by nearly 1.1 million in April , according to ADP .
Before April , the worst monthly decline in the ADP data was 835,000 jobs in February 2009 , during the depths of the last recession .
( Adds graphic )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

China and South Korea mark major milestones in taming coronavirus .
2020-05-06 12:43:47 +00:00 .
Countries including China and South Korea have marked major milestones in taming Covid-19 , even as the UK became the epicentre of Covid-19 in Europe and infections rose sharply again in Russia .
South Korea reported only three new cases of the virus , its lowest total since February 18 , and schools will be reopened in phased steps , starting with high school seniors on May 13 , but the highlight on Tuesday was the resumption of the baseball season .
Cheerleaders danced beneath rows of empty seats and umpires wore protective masks as one of the world ’s first major professional sports returned to action in games broadcast to starved sports fans around the world .
The Korea Baseball Organisation employed other protective measures , including fever screenings for players and coaches before they entered the stadiums .
Baseball in an empty stadium ( Lee Jin - man / AP )
More
The country ’s professional football leagues will kick off on Friday , also without spectators .
In China , it has been three weeks since any new deaths have been reported in the country where the pandemic began late last year .
Just one new infection was confirmed , and fewer than 400 patients are still being treated for Covid-19 , health officials said .
Other places in the Asia - Pacific region have also suppressed outbreaks , including Hong Kong , Taiwan , Vietnam , Thailand , Australia and New Zealand , which has had no new cases for two days .
But experts say India , a nation of 1.3 billion people , has yet to see the peak of its outbreak .
Cyclists in the Chinese tourist spot of Nanluonguxiang ( Andy Wong / AP )
More
Britain now has Europe ’s highest official coronavirus death toll after the latest round of daily figures on Tuesday showed it overtaking Italy .
In Russia , the number of infections rose sharply again , with Moscow reporting more than 10,000 new cases for three days in a row .
At the same time , many European countries that have relaxed strict lockdowns after new infections tapered off were watching their virus numbers warily .
“ We know with great certainty that there will be a second wave — the majority of scientists is sure of that .
And many also assume that there will be a third wave , ” said Lothar Wieler , the head of Germany ’s national disease control centre .
In the US , moves to reopen some states came even as daily new infections continue to exceed 20,000 and daily deaths were over 1,000 , according to figures from Johns Hopkins University .
Story continues
On Tuesday , New York state reported more than 1,700 previously undisclosed deaths at nursing homes and adult care facilities .
President Donald Trump headed for Arizona to visit a Honeywell factory that makes respirator masks , in what could be a return to more regular travel for the president .
“ The people of our country should think of themselves as warriors .
Our country has to open , ” Mr Trump said before boarding Air Force One .
At least 4,813 people have died from Covid-19 in state nursing homes since March 1 , according to a tally released by governor Andrew Cuomo ’s administration that , for the first time , includes people believed to have been killed by coronavirus before their diagnoses could be confirmed by a lab test .
Governments around the world have reported 3.5 million infections and more than 251,000 deaths , including nearly 69,000 in the US .
Deliberately concealed outbreaks , low testing rates and the severe strain the disease has placed on health care systems mean the true scale of the pandemic is undoubtedly much greater .

Trump dismisses new COVID-19 death forecast: 'It's time to go back to work' .
2020-05-06 12:25:19 +00:00 .
As states around the country move toward opening businesses and easing restrictions on mobility , President Trump Tuesday dismissed concerns that the number of deaths from the coronavirus could nearly double in the next three months .
“ We did everything right , but now it ’s time to go back to work , ” Trump said as he took questions before departing the White House for a trip to Arizona .
Reporters asked if he was concerned about models showing 134,000 deaths by August .
The number was included in a projection by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
A separate projection by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Seattle Monday arrived at almost the same figure , 135,000 , the midpoint of a range of 95,092 to 242,890 .
“ That assumes no mitigation , and we ’re going to have mitigation , ” said Trump .
But the IHME model “ assumes that mandates that are currently in place will stay in place until infections are minimized , ” according to the Institute .
The new projection , representing a large increase from late March , “ reflects rising mobility in most U.S. states as well as the easing of social distancing measures expected in 31 states by May 11 , indicating that growing contacts among people will promote transmission of the coronavirus . ”
Trump has encouraged the trend toward easing restrictions since late March when he originally set a goal of April 12 for returning to normality , before reversing himself after experts warned of a catastrophic resurgence of COVID-19 cases .
While protests calling for restrictions to be lifted have garnered headlines and viral social media posts , polling shows a majority of Americans are still supportive of the restrictions .
“ We ’re doing mitigation ... but we have to get our country open .
We have to open our country , ” Trump said Tuesday .
According to tracking information from Johns Hopkins University , more than 69,000 Americans have died from the coronavirus so far .
Public health experts believe the true number is likely far higher .
President Trump speaks to members of the media on the South Lawn of the White House Tuesday .
( AP Photo / Patrick Semansky )
More
The administration ’s own guidelines call for gradually relaxing restrictions in states after going 14 consecutive days with fewer cases .
But some states are reopening despite the number of daily cases going up .
Trump repeated his assertion from Sunday ’s town hall event at the Lincoln Memorial that Democrats want Americans to die to make him look bad .
He said that was why the administration was refusing to allow Dr. Anthony Fauci , a key member of the coronavirus task force and head of the National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases , to testify before a House subcommittee investigating the coronavirus outbreak and response .
“ Because the House is a setup .
The House is a bunch of Trump haters , ” said Trump .
“ They frankly want our situation to be unsuccessful , which means death .
They should be ashamed of themselves .
...
They want us to fail so they can win an election , which they ’re not going to win . ”
Last Friday , deputy press secretary Judd Deere told the Washington Post that Fauci did n’t have time to testify because he was busy fighting the virus .
Fauci is set to testify before Republican - controlled Senate on May 12 .
_ _ _ _ _
Click here for the latest coronavirus news and updates .
According to experts , people over 60 and those who are immunocompromised continue to be the most at risk .
If you have questions , please refer to the CDC ’s and WHO ’s resource guides .
Read more :

Online supermarket Ocado's sales soar 40% in lockdown Britain .
2020-05-06 10:42:02 +00:00 .
By James Davey LONDON ( Reuters ) - British online supermarket Ocado has seen retail revenue soar 40.4 % year - on - year in its second quarter to date as it ramped up capacity to meet unprecedented demand during the country 's coronavirus lockdown .
Growth accelerated from 10.3 % in its first quarter to March 1 , sending its shares up 3.2 % at 0935 GMT , extending gains for 2020 to 35 % .
Britain has been on lockdown since March 23 , but Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said the country is past the peak of the pandemic and is expected to set out a plan on Sunday on how it might gradually ease restrictions .
In March , Ocado was forced to stop registrations from new customers and impose a queuing system online after it saw a several hundred percentage increase in web traffic .
" It took us a few weeks to adapt to a completely new situation , and I know we did n’t serve our customers as well as we ’d liked ( to ) , " finance chief Duncan Tatton - Brown told reporters .
Pre - crisis , about 7 % of UK grocery sales were delivered to homes - about one in every 15 households .
Industry leader Tesco had a 35 % share of the online grocery market , while Ocado had about 14 % .
All of Britain 's big four grocers - Tesco , Sainsbury 's , Asda and Morrisons - have been ramping up their online capacity to meet some of the extra demand .
But even if delivery capacity doubled , some 85 % of the market would still need to be served by stores .
" There is too much demand in the UK for online ( grocery ) for the UK operations to serve that , " said Tatton - Brown .
" So as an industry we ca n’t meet the demand , and Ocado is one of the players in the industry and therefore shares that disappointment . "
Ocado 's capacity had increased to enable the delivery of over 40 % more groceries in the UK than before COVID-19 hit , with its mature warehouses running at their peak and at their best ever efficiencies .
The number of items per customer basket appeared to have passed its peak , but remained high , Ocado said .
The share of fresh and chilled products in the mix , relative to ambient store cupboard items , was also returning to normal , it added .
LONG - TERM SHIFT
Ocado expects the long - term shift towards online grocery to accelerate post the crisis .
But it highlighted uncertainties about its length , customer reaction immediately afterwards and its long - term impact on customers ' disposable incomes .
It said it had suspended its guidance for retail revenue for full year 2020 until it could accurately forecast likely outcomes .
The group has cash of 1.2 billion pounds on its balance sheet .
Ocado Retail is a joint venture between Ocado Group and Marks Spencer .
Ocado 's supply deal with Waitrose will finish at the end of August , when it will be replaced with MS .
Ocado has a stock market capitalisation of 12.2 billion pounds ( $ 15.2 billion ) , which is more than the combined market capitalisations of Sainsbury 's , Britain 's No . 2 supermarket group by sales , and No . 4 Morrisons .
The share price has mostly been driven by its state - of - the - art robotic technology which has enabled it to win partnership deals with supermarket groups around the world , including Kroger in the United States , Casino in France and Aeon in Japan .
Ocado 's update was published ahead of its annual shareholders ' meeting , where the firm could face an investor revolt over executive pay .
Co - founder and CEO Tim Steiner was paid 58.7 million pounds in 2019 .
The company says its rewards are justified because it created 7.5 billion of value for shareholders in the five years to 2019 .
( $ 1 = 0.8040 pounds )
( Reporting by James Davey ;
Editing by Paul Sandle and Jan Harvey )

Russian oil output falls near to OPEC+ target - sources .
2020-05-06 10:42:02 +00:00 .
By Olesya Astakhova and Gleb Gorodyankin
MOSCOW ( Reuters ) - Russia 's oil output in the first five days of May fell to 8.75 million barrels per day ( bpd ) , close to its production target of 8.5 million bpd for May and June under a global deal to cut crude supplies , two sources familiar with the data told Reuters .
Together with gas condensate , or light oil , which is not part of Russia 's target , the country 's output was 9.5 million bpd for May 1 - 5 , the first time it has fallen below 10 million bpd since August 2009 .
While the latest data , which showed production of 1.296 million tonnes per day including gas condensate , was only for the first few days since the deal kicked in on May 1 , it shows Russia is following through on its pledges so far .
Russia 's energy ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
Reuters uses a ratio of 7.33 barrels per tonne to calculate the daily output in barrels .
Russia 's gas condensate output is typically about 700,000 - 800,000 barrels a day .
A group of leading oil producers known as OPEC+ including Russia and Saudi Arabia agreed last month to cut crude supplies to combat the fallout from the coronavirus , which has hit economic activity and demand for fuel around the world .
Under the global pact , Russia has pledged to reduce its crude oil output in May and June by 2.5 million bpd from a baseline of 11 million bpd .
In April , the month before the deal came into force , Russia produced an average 11.35 million bpd .
Last month , oil prices fell to their lowest in more than two decades due to the slide in demand during the pandemic combined with overproduction and a lack of crude storage capacity .
Prices have since recovered slightly as some countries end coronavirus lockdowns and producers curb their supply .
Russia 's average monthly oil and gas condensate output fell to 9.97 million bpd in August 2009 but then remained above 10 million bpd until this month , thanks to new fields coming online such as Vankor , operated by energy giant Rosneft .
( Reporting by Olesya Astakhova Gleb Gorodyankin ; writing by Vladimir Soldatkin ;
Editing by Louise Heavens and David Clarke )

UK Yet To 'Get To Grips' With Coronavirus Care Home Deaths, Warns Deputy Chief Scientific Adviser .
2020-05-06 07:28:16 +00:00 .
Coronavirus has changed everything .
Make sense of it all with the Waugh Zone , our evening politics briefing .
Sign up now .
The UK must “ get to grips ” with coronavirus deaths in care homes with fatalities continuing to rise as those in hospital fall , the deputy chief scientific adviser has said .
Angela McLean shared latest figures revealing that the death rate in care homes had grown to about half the level of that in hospitals by the week ending April 24 .
And care home deaths continued to rise as hospital deaths fell , accounting for an increasing proportion of Covid-19 fatalities in the UK .
McLean told the daily Downing Street briefing : “ Whilst deaths in hospitals have been falling , deaths in care homes in the week to April 24 were still rising to the extent that in that week deaths in care homes were about half as many as the deaths in all hospitals .
“ I think what that shows us is that there is a real issue that we need to get to grips with about what is happening in care homes . ”
More than a fifth of all coronavirus - related deaths in England and Wales up to April 24 happened in care homes .
Figures from the Office for National Statistics ( ONS ) show that the deaths of 5,890 care home residents after they had contracted Covid-19 had been registered by April 24 .
It represents around 21 % of the 27,356 coronavirus - related deaths registered up to that date so far this year .
( Some 29,710 people had actually died as of April 24 , taking into account registrations that took place into May. )
Around seven out of 10 deaths involving Covid-19 happened in hospital , the ONS said , with 19,643 hospital deaths registered .
There were 1,306 deaths in private homes and 301 in hospices .
Meanwhile , McLean said she was “ troubled ” by the latest social distancing data which showed the number of motor journeys was “ creeping up ” .
“ It does trouble me , ” she told the daily No.10 press conference .
But she said the numbers of new patients entering hospital in England was continuing to fall away “ pretty rapidly ” .
Related ...
The UK Has The Most Coronavirus Deaths In Europe .
But Is It A Fair Comparison ?
Public Could Meet Close Friends Outdoors Under Lockdown Exit Plan , No.10 Signals ' Hostile States '
And Cyber Criminals Are Targeting UK During Coronavirus , Says Raab Love HuffPost ?
Become a founding member of HuffPost Plus today .
This article originally appeared on HuffPost .

Britain’s coronavirus cases came mainly from Europe, not China .
2020-05-06 06:31:54 +00:00 .
Many of Britain ’s early cases in the coronavirus pandemic were imported from Europe – most likely Italy and Spain – rather than China , according to the British government ’s chief scientific adviser Patrick Vallance .
“ Early in March the UK got many , many different imports of virus from many different places , and those places were particularly from European countries with outbreaks , ” Vallance told the parliament ’s health and social care committee on Tuesday .
The genomics of the virus at that time showed the big influx was “ probably from Italy and Spain ” , he said .
“ Whether that was people returning from half - term , business travellers or not , we do n’t know .
But a lot of the cases in the UK did n’t come from China and did n’t come from places you might have expected .
They actually came from European imports and the high level of travel into the UK around that time . ”
Britain , which has the highest number of deaths in Europe from Covid-19 , the disease caused by the new coronavirus , reported its first confirmed cases in late January – two Chinese nationals from the same family who were staying at an apartment hotel in York .
In France , a team of researchers has found the disease was already spreading there in late December , one month before the first official cases were confirmed .
The revelation followed a study of 14 stored respiratory samples of patients who were admitted to intensive care units with influenza - like symptoms in December and January .
The researchers identified a 42 - year - old patient , whose last overseas trip had been to Algeria in August , who developed symptoms after one of his children had a flu - like illness .
The patient , who had pre - existing asthma and Type 2 diabetes , was admitted to the ICU for antibiotic therapy and discharged after two days .
Previously , France ’s first confirmed cases were identified on January 24 as two patients with a travel history to Wuhan , the provincial capital of Hubei in central China and original epicentre of the new coronavirus outbreak , according to the peer - reviewed medical paper published on Sunday by online research database ScienceDirect .
The origin of the new coronavirus has been the subject of a fierce blame game between China and the US , with a number of other countries also calling for an international inquiry .
US President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have said the US has evidence the outbreak is linked to a virology lab in Wuhan , although no evidence has been provided .
John Ratcliffe , Trump ’s nominee for the post of director of national intelligence , said during his confirmation hearing that he had not seen any intelligence suggesting the coronavirus emerged from the Wuhan lab .
But he also said he had not seen intelligence to suggest the disease started in the Wuhan seafood market , believed by many to be the source of the virus .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Britain ’s coronavirus cases came mainly from Europe , not China first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

ASX Accused of Trying to ‘Crush’ Rival Blockchain Trading System .
2020-05-06 06:02:51 +00:00 .
The CEO of fintech firm iSignthis has accused the Australian Securities Exchange ( ASX ) of abusing its market - leader position by trying to delay the launch of ClearPay , a blockchain - based trading system on the rival National Stock Exchange of Australia ( NSX ) .
A joint venture between iSignthis and the NSX , ClearPay uses distributed ledger technology ( DLT ) to facilitate same - day settlements and up - to - date accounting between trading participants , the share registry , and the exchange .
Although it was only publicly unveiled in February , the CEO of both iSignthis and NSX , John Karantzis , said the news was leaked beforehand and claimed the news led to ASX suspending trading in ISX shares on October 2 .
Karantzis told CoinDesk that the ASX has held a “ public inquisition ” into ClearPay and how it would compete with its settlement service , Austraclear , as well as its own in - the - works DLT - based trading system .
Related : Power Ledger to Bring Blockchain Energy Trading to West Australian Housing Developments
“ To be perfectly honest , [ the ASX is ] doing a pretty good job trying to crush us at the moment , ” he said .
ASX has been working on a DLT - based replacement for its ageing clearing system for nearly five years .
Although it had originally been scheduled for April 2021 , the exchange said in late March it would delay the launch date over the uncertainty caused by the coronavirus .
At the time , Karantzis said ClearPay was on track to launch sometime in early 2021 .
See also :
Sweden ’s Central Bank Finally Embraces DLT , But Only in Simulation Mode
For its part , ASX said it suspended iSignthis shares – which had risen tenfold over the course of 2019 – so it could conduct a review after a market research group raised concerns about the company ’s disclosures , governance and shareholder structure .
Related : How Blockchain Tech Can Make Coronavirus Relief More Effective
In December 2019 , iSignthis began legal proceedings against the exchange , claiming the suspension was unlawful .
Then , this April , it requested an injunction that would block the ASX from releasing a 41 - page report alleging iSignthis had broken the law .
This was rejected by the court .
In the report , released April 30 , ASX said iSignthis issued 336 million performance , or “ milestone , ” shares to company directors and managers after it had signed four unusual contracts , outside of its core business , that were not publicly disclosed until much later .
“ [ I]f ASX were to reinstate ISX shares to trading now , it would allow the holders of the Milestone Shares to immediately sell them on - market and walk away with the proceeds in circumstances where there are serious questions to be answered about the legitimacy of their issue , ” the report concludes .
In a statement , Karantzis said : “ the board of ISX rejects the ASX ’s Statement of Reasons , which it considers to be a fundamentally flawed document that forms a number of erroneous conclusions based on factually incorrect information and assumptions .
“ Karantzis added that the case against ASX had also been dropped .
See also : State Street : 38 % of Clients Will Put More Money into Digital Assets in 2020
CoinDesk approached ASX for comment on Karantzis ’ new allegations that the trading suspension was an attempt to delay the development of the ClearPay trading system .
A spokesperson declined to comment on the allegations , but said the exchange was only made aware that there was any sort of relationship between iSignthis and the NSX in February , more than five months after ISX shares were suspended .
Related Stories

Dallas salon owner who reopened in defiance of Texas' coronavirus restrictions sentenced to 7 days in jail .
2020-05-06 04:00:22 +00:00 .
Minutes after Gov. Greg Abbott announced salons and barbershops in Texas could reopen Friday , a Dallas salon owner was sentenced to seven days in jail Tuesday for violating state and county orders to close her salon amid the coronavirus pandemic .
Shelley Luther , owner of Salon a la Mode , was fined to $ 7,000 for ignoring a restraining order from state District Judge Eric Moyé , according to the Dallas Morning News .
She also received a cease - and - desist letter from County Judge Clay Jenkins on Friday .
She ripped up the letter the next day at a rally .
" Come and get it , Judge Clay Jenkins .
Come and get it , " she said at the time , the Morning News reported .
" You have rights to feed your children and make income .
And anyone that wants to take away those rights is wrong . "
Open ?
Closed ?
Here 's how the 50 states , DC and Puerto Rico are easing social distancing restrictions amid coronavirus outbreak
Luther reopened her salon on April 24 after Dallas County ordered all nonessential businesses to close in March .
Since then , Luther said she had n't earned income and did n't receive a federal loan aimed at supporting small businesses until Sunday .
Luther said she reopened the salon while following social distancing guidelines , but the city attorney argued that it did n't matter because Luther defied the judge 's temporary restraining order .
Warren Norred , Luther 's attorney , said the salon will remain open before the governor 's order goes into effect Friday , meaning Luther will be fined $ 500 per day .
A similar case could be unfolding in Oregon , where a salon reopened on Tuesday morning in the capital city of Salem , the Statesman Journal of the USA TODAY Network reported .
Protesters showed up with American flags and signs to support Glamour Salon owner Lindsey Graham .
U.S. coronavirus map : Tracking the outbreak , state by state
" I want ( people ) to understand I 'm doing this to provide for my family .
No other reason , " said Graham , adding that she plans to stay open " as long as the government allows me to .
Before they throw me in jail . "
Like Luther , Graham said the salon is following social distancing guidelines by providing gloves and masks to employees , and regularly disinfecting equipment .
Gov. Kate Brown said last week that some parts of Oregon could start to reopen as early as May 15 .
Violating state orders can result in a maximum penalty of $ 12,675 .
Contributing : Natalie Pate , Salem ( Oregon ) Statesman Journal .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Dallas salon owner sent to jail for defying restrictions

New Zealand’s Jobless Rate Rises As Virus Starts to Impede Economy .
2020-05-05 23:38:04 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
New Zealand ’s jobless rate rose and wage growth slowed in the first quarter as the Covid-19 pandemic started to push the economy toward recession .
The jobless rate rose to 4.2 % from 4 % in the fourth quarter , Statistics New Zealand said Wednesday in Wellington .
Economists expected 4.4%Employment unexpectedly climbed 0.7 % from the previous three months .
Economists expected a 0.2 %
contractionThe participation rate gained to 70.4 % from 70.1 % in the fourth quarterThe Labour Cost Index for non - government workers increased 0.3 % in the quarter , slowing from 0.6 % in the previous three months .
From a year earlier , wages rose 2.4 % Key Insights Data collection was mostly complete before the New Zealand government imposed a strict nationwide lockdown on March 25 which forced many businesses to shut their doorsUnemployment benefit claims have soared and business hiring intentions have slumped , suggesting the jobless rate may rise toward 10 % over the course of 2020The government introduced a 12 - week wage subsidy to help cushion the initial impacts of the recession , and will update its fiscal support plans at the budget on May 14The RBNZ is tipped to increase its quantitative easing program from NZ$33 billion at its policy announcement on May 13 as it seeks to cushion the impact of the economic slump on its inflation and employment targets Market Reaction
The Kiwi dollar was little changed after the report .
It bought 60.61 U.S. cents at 10:52 a.m. in Wellington .
Get More New Zealand Economy Gets Back to Work as Lockdown Is EasedN.Z. Government Seeks to Limit Jobless Surge With More Stimulus
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

No sign of second wave in Germany as first data on lifting lockdown emerges .
2020-05-05 22:43:36 +00:00 .
There was no sign of a second wave of coronavirus infections in Germany as the first reliable data on the effects of lifting the lockdown emerged on Tuesday .
Two weeks after shops were allowed to reopen , the rate of new infections continues to fall , the government - funded Robert Koch Institute ( RKI ) announced .
The reproduction number , or R — the number of people each person with the virus infects — is close to its lowest recorded level , at 0.71 .
“ The rate of transmitted infections continues to fall .
This is very good news , ” Prof Lothar Wieler , the head of the RKI said .
The figures are the first to include reliable data on new infections since Germany began to lift its lockdown two weeks ago .
New infections take time to develop and scientists assume a lag of 10 - 14 days before they are reflected in the figures .
But Prof Wieler cautioned against celebrating too early .
“ We know there will probably be a second wave .
The majority of scientists agree on this and many believe there will also be a third wave , ” he said .
Bavaria 's State Premier and leader of the Bavarian Christian Social Union ( CSU ) Markus Soeder attends a Bavarian cabinet meeting in the dome hall of the Bavarian State chancellery on May 5 , 2020 in Munich amid the novel coronavirus pandemic .
- Germany is accelerating its return to normality from a crippling lockdown , with regional leaders pushing back against Chancellor Angela Merkel 's pleas for prudence in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic .
On the eve of a key meeting schedulded on May 6 , 2020 between Merkel and premiers of Germany 's 16 states to debate a new round of easing of stay - at - home measures , the country 's biggest state Bavaria pre - empted talks by saying it would reopen its restaurants and hotels this month .
( Photo by Sven Hoppe / POOL / AFP ) ( Photo by SVEN HOPPE / POOL / AFP via Getty Images ) - SVEN HOPPE / AFP
More
The latest figures came as Germany ’s regional governments announced plans to ease restrictions further .
Angela Merkel is to hold talks on the lockdown with regional leaders on Wednesday but her attempts to maintain nationwide regulations appeared to be unravelling as several state governments announced plans to go it alone .
Bavaria , until now the toughest lockdown state in Germany , on Tuesday became the latest to announce plans to reopen restaurants and hotels later this month .
The state will also relax its ban on people leaving their homes and allow visits to nursing and care homes from the weekend .
Lower Saxony is to allow people to travel to second homes or go camping from Wednesday , while Mecklenburg - West Pomerania will be the first state to reopen restaurants this weekend , followed by hotels on May 18 .
Mrs Merkel has previously warned the regional governments are rushing to lift the lockdown too soon .
She is reportedly pressing regional leaders to agree an emergency brake rule at Wednesday 's talks .
Under the proposal , if the number of infections in a town or district rises above an agreed limit , the area would be placed back under total lockdown .

HHS official Rick Bright says he was ousted after raising concern about coronavirus drug Trump had touted .
2020-05-05 22:28:30 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON – A vaccine expert who said he was ousted after raising concerns about a drug President Donald Trump touted as a potential treatment for coronavirus filed a whistleblower complaint Tuesday alleging longstanding political influence at the Department of Health and Human Services .
Rick Bright , who until recently served as director of the HHS Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority , also said he raised alarms about the coronavirus – and the need to ramp up production of face masks and other personal protective equipment – with White House officials as far back as January .
Bright says in the report that he resisted widespread use of hydroxychloroquine , which Trump had repeatedly touted , because the claims of its benefit lacked “ scientific merit . "
In his report , Bright said he pushed back against the drug " even though the administration promoted it as a panacea and demanded that New York and New Jersey be ' flooded ' with these drugs . "
The Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority is designed to aid in securing the nation from chemical , biological , radiological , and nuclear threats , as well as from influenza and diseases , according to HHS .
Bright was removed from his role and assigned to a job at the National Institutes of Health last month .
" The past few years have been beyond challenging , " Bright told reporters Tuesday .
" I was pressured to let politics and cronyism drive decisions , over opinions of the best scientists in government . "
An HHS spokeswoman fired back at Bright in a statement Tuesday .
“ Dr. Bright was transferred to NIH to work on diagnostics testing , " said spokeswoman Caitlin Oakley , describing the new position as " critical " to combating the virus .
" We are deeply disappointed that he has not shown up to work on behalf of the American people and lead on this critical endeavor . ”
The report argues that " HHS political leadership retaliated against Dr. Bright for his objections and resistance to funding potentially dangerous drugs promoted by those with political connections and by the administration itself . "
Bright 's attorneys argue in the report that tension with HHS leadership dated to non - COVID-19 contracts earlier in the Trump administration .
Bright said he resisted efforts to extend a contract with a company whose CEO , he was told , was a friend of Jared Kushner , the president 's son - in - law and a senior adviser at the White House .
Bright also claims in the report that he met with White House officials as far back as February 8 , 2020 , to warn about the coronavirus and that he emphasized the need to " secure N95 masks and to ramp up mask production , ” as well as other equipment .
Trump said late last month that he did n't know about Bright or his accusations .
" I have never heard of him , " the president said .
" I do n't know who he is . "
Bright is expected to testify before the House Energy Subcommittee on Health on May 14 , his lawyers said .
President Trump warns coronavirus response could last until August
More
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Rick Bright files whistleblower complaint against Trump administration

British Scientist Who Spearheaded National Lockdown Quits After Meeting With Married Lover .
2020-05-05 21:08:21 +00:00 .
The British scientist known colloquially as “ Professor Lockdown , ” who pushed Prime Minister Boris Johnson to impose a nationwide lockdown , resigned on Tuesday after he defied social distancing guidelines to have a rendezvous with his married lover in his London home .
Professor Neil Ferguson , who had been praised for his expertise and guidance during the U.K. ’s coronavirus outbreak , allowed 38 - year - old Antonia Staats — who is married with two children — into his home at the same time he was publicly advising everyone else to adhere to strict guidelines banning couples from seeing each other if they did n’t live together .
Ferguson , who is the head of the Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology at Imperial College London , had delivered stark warnings to Downing Street about how many people could die of the coronavirus if the government did not impose restrictions .
His renowned work also reportedly informed government responses to coronavirus in the United States , France , and Germany .
“ I accept I made an error of judgment and took the wrong course of action , ” Ferguson told The Telegraph , which first reported on Ferguson ’s ouster .
“ I have therefore stepped back from my involvement in SAGE [ the government ’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies ] .
I deeply regret any undermining of the clear messages around the continued need for social distancing to control this devastating epidemic .
The government guidance is unequivocal , and is there to protect all of us . ”
The scientist ’s lover reportedly made several trips to his home in March and April even though she admitted to her friends that her husband was experiencing symptoms of the coronavirus .
Deputy Chief Medical Officer Dr. Jenny Harries and Health Secretary Matt Hancock informed the public one week before the lovers ’ first reunion on March 30 that “ if the two halves of a couple are currently in separate households , ideally they should stay in those households . ”
According to The Telegraph , Staat and her husband are in an open marriage and Staat did not believe their actions to be hypocritical because she considers the households to be one .
Ferguson has for years modeled the spread of major pathogen outbreaks such as swine flu and Ebola .
He tested positive for the coronavirus on March 19 after speaking at a Downing Street press conference two days earlier .
He recently completed two weeks of self - quarantine , according to The Telegraph .
“ This virus is probably the one that concerns me the most of everything I ’ve worked on , ” Ferguson said in a February 14 interview in the early days of the coronavirus outbreak .
The scientist had been on the forefront of the coronavirus fight in the U.K. , frequently appearing in interviews to praise “ very intensive social distancing ” measures .
Ferguson heads an Imperial College team that presented a staggering report to the government that projected more than 500,000 deaths in the UK without enforced restrictions .
“ Scientists like him have told us we should not be doing it , so surely in his case it is a case of we have been doing as he says and he has been doing as he wants to , ” said British Member of Parliament Iain Duncan Smith .
“ He has peculiarly breached his own guidelines and for an intelligent man I find that very hard to believe .
It risks undermining the government 's lockdown message . ”
Read more at The Daily Beast .
Get our top stories in your inbox every day .
Sign up now !
Daily Beast Membership :
Beast Inside goes deeper on the stories that matter to you .
Learn more .

Tributes paid to nurse and parents who died of Covid-19 weeks apart .
2020-05-05 19:20:11 +00:00 .
The parents of a nurse who contracted a fatal coronavirus infection also died with Covid-19 only weeks later .
Keith Dunnington , 54 , who had worked as nurse for more than 30 years , died at his parents ’ home in South Shields on 19 April .
He worked as an agency nurse and most recently on the frontline of ward 12 at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Gateshead .
His parents Lillian and Maurice Dunnington also fell ill with the virus .
Lillian , 81 , died on 1 May , reportedly holding hands with Maurice in her final moments , after staff at South Tyneside hospital had brought him to her bedside from his ward .
Maurice died at the same hospital over the weekend .
The UK now has the highest death toll in Europe from Covid-19 , at more than 32,000 , but certain communities and families have borne the brunt .
Dunnington is one of 150 NHS and private health care workers to die after contracting coronavirus .
In a message sent to staff at the Queen Elizabeth hospital , Yvonne Ormston , chief executive of Gateshead Health NHS Foundation trust , said : “ Keith was a popular and hard - working member of our fantastic nursing team .
He will be very missed by his co - workers here at the trust and by the patients he cared for .
“ Keith most recently worked on ward 12 , where his colleagues remember him very fondly .
He was known for always having a positive outlook which others found really encouraging and for taking time to check in with colleagues . ”
Dunnington was known for placing particular importance on his colleagues having dinner on a Sunday and often arranged food for everyone .
Outside of work , he volunteered at soup kitchens and “ spent time with his family , who he spoke so highly about , ” Ormston added .
One colleague posted on Facebook that Dunnington ’s funeral had been due to be held on Monday 4 May and called on staff at South Tyneside to gather at the hospital ’s John Reid Road entrance from 10 am to pay respects as the hearse passed .
However , Dunnington ’s funeral had to be postponed when his parents fell ill and died .
Living Waters church , based in South Shields , announced the family would now be laid to rest together on 16 May.
Lilian was Living Waters ’ longest serving member and , alongside her husband , supported the church over many years .
“ They loved Jesus .
We all loved them and will miss them every day , ” the church said in a statement .
“ I ’m still in disbelief , Keith ’s children are absolutely devastated and then to lose their nanny and granddad as well .
Keith gave 200 % to everything he did , ” his cousin Debbie Harvey told the BBC .
“ He looked after people so well and stood up for them .
My children are also absolutely heartbroken . ”
She said Lilian was the “ strongest woman I ’ve ever known ” and described Maurice , a well - known bus driver in South Shields , as a “ larger than life character ” who was also a devoted supporter of the British Legion .
Tributes poured in from friends , colleagues , and neighbours after news of the family ’s tragedy was announced .
Adrienne Arthur said : “ This is the stuff of nightmares , three members of the same family – heartbreaking . ”

Round-the-world cyclist stranded and scorned in Guinea .
2020-05-05 17:02:10 +00:00 .
Raymond Lee had been travelling the world by bicycle for two years when the coronavirus erupted and he suddenly found himself stranded in the poor West African state of Guinea .
After cycling through Europe and then across the Sahara , the 33 - year - old South Korean was in Guinea , heading south , when the government shut the borders in a bid to curb the spread of the virus .
" When I was in Guinea this thing became really serious , " said Lee , a former flight attendant with an easy smile and a shock of long hair .
Now stranded , he was repeatedly turned away from hotels in the seaside capital Conakry , in what Lee described as a prejudiced reaction to the pandemic .
" They did n't let me in because I am Asian , " he said by phone , explaining that he was turned away from seven or eight hotels .
" It was pretty messed up , " he added .
" I personally never experienced any racism in my entire life , this is the first time " .
In spite of abundant natural resources , Guinea is a poor country where the fragile health system is causing concern in the face of the pandemic .
The nation of some 13 million people also has one of the worst outbreaks in the region , with about 1,300 confirmed cases and seven fatalities .
Lee began asking around on the street for a place to stay -- only to be swindled by a man who agreed to host him for 50 euros ( $ 55 ) a month , but who vanished after receiving the money .
With nowhere to stay and living off savings , he found a room in an upmarket hotel which he could not afford for long .
- Unfazed -
After a plea on Facebook , somebody eventually put Lee in touch with a guesthouse which agreed to take him , and where he estimates he will have to stay for months .
Unfazed , Lee said that Conakry is full of good people and that far worse could have befallen him during his round - the - world odyssey .
" I wasn?t shocked , " Lee said .
" We expect so many unexpected things , " he added , referring to nomads such as himself who pedal around the world .
His predicament is preferable to a traffic accident or serious illness , he said , both of which are real possibilities when on the road .
Lee started his journey in New Zealand in March 2018 -- where he started a YouTube video diary -- before flying to Australia to work and save money , and then on to Europe .
" Bike travelling is the best way to travel the whole world , " he said , explaining that he could stop whenever and wherever he liked .
After struggling over mountains in Italy and Spain , Lee cycled into Morocco and then into the vast desert , where , despite harsh conditions , the cycling was smooth .
" In the middle of the desert it was nothing but endless horizon for days , weeks , months , " he said .
For now , Lee is whiling away his days in his Conakry guesthouse , reading and watching television series .
But when the restrictions lift , he plans to continue to Ivory Coast , and from there perhaps to South Africa -- a journey he said could take longer than one year .
" I just want to go to as many countries as I can while I feel able to do it , " Lee said .
" I?ve been travelling for two years and I do n't think that is enough " .
World traveller : Raymond Lee and his trusty bicycle
Lee still has a smile despite being stranded in Guinea by the coronavirus pandemic

Iranian airline linked to Revolutionary Guards 'defied coronavirus ban on China flights' .
2020-05-05 13:27:06 +00:00 .
An Iranian airline with links to the Revolutionary Guards Corps may have contributed to the spread of coronavirus around the Middle East after it continued to fly to China despite a ban imposed by the Iranian government , an investigation has claimed .
Mahan Air , a privately owned airline , flew between Iran and China 157 times between early February and March , an analysis of flight tracking data by BBC Arabic found .
The Iranian government banned flights to and from China on January 31 .
Mahan said it was suspending flights and ticket sales to and from China on February 2 , in accordance with instruction from the World Health Organisation and Iran ’s Civil Aviation Organisation .
It has previously said it carried out several evacuation flights of Iranian citizens after that date , and published a message of thanks from Iranian aviation authorities for doing so on its website on February 7 .
The flights included an Airbus 310 that repatriated 70 Iranian students from Wuhan to Tehran on February 6 , and then flew on to Baghdad the following day .
Four more flights were operated between February 3 and February 6 , carrying repatriated Chinese and Iranian citizens in either direction .
But the BBC found that that airline continued to fly regularly to destinations including Beijing , Shanghai , Guangzhou , and Shenzhen after that .
It also claimed that Mahan had continued to fly to Iraq after the government of that country banned flights from Iran on April 20 , and to the United Arab Emirates after it introduced a ban on February 25 .
Iraq and Lebanon reported their first cases of coronavirus in travellers from Iran in February .
The BBC claimed both cases arrived on Mahan Air flights .
Iran was one of the worst - affected countries at the beginning of the pandemic and has so far recorded almost 100,000 cases of the coronavirus .
Allegations that Mahan was flouting the flight ban were first reported in the Shargh daily , a reformist newspaper in Iran .
Mahan said in a statement at the time that since the ban on China routes it had only flown repatriation and aid flights at the request of the country 's ministries of health and foreign affairs .
It said it had also agreed to fly industrial materials from China for Iranian manufacturers .
" Obviously , our company would be in such a situation that regardless of material interests and even accepting losses , it had to assist the esteemed government and the country 's industries and carry over hundreds of tons of industrial items to Iran , " it said .
Mahan has faced US sanctions because of its suspected links to the Revolutionary Guards Corps .
Germany , France and Italy banned Mahan flights in 2019 , following requests from the United States .
Germany cited “ security ” concerns and the airline ’s alleged role in flying personnel and material to conflict zones including Syria .
The airline ’s last European Union route , a twice - weekly service between Tehran and Barcelona was cancelled in March after Spain revoked its landing license .
Mahan did not immediately respond to emailed requests for comment .

UK coronavirus death toll rises above 32,000 to highest in Europe .
2020-05-05 11:40:24 +00:00 .
The UK now has the highest death toll in Europe from coronavirus after new official figures revealed that more than 32,000 people have died from the virus .
The Office for National Statistics said 29,648 deaths were registered in England and Wales by 2 May with Covid-19 mentioned on the death certificates .
With the addition of deaths in Scotland and Northern Ireland , this takes the UK ’s death toll to 32,313 , according to calculations by Reuters .
This figure far exceeds the death toll of 29,029 in Italy – until now Europe ’s worst - hit country .
Italy ’s total does not include suspected cases .
Ministers and experts have warned against international comparisons , saying the figure for excess mortality – the number of deaths from all causes that exceed the average for the time of year – is a more meaningful gauge .
The latest ONS figures for the week ending 24 April show there were 21,997 deaths , which is 11,539 more than the average for that week .
But the total weekly death toll dipped slightly by 354 death .
This was the first decrease in weekly deaths since the start of the outbreak and confirms other figures showing the UK is past the peak of infections .
The figures also show that hospital deaths increased at a slower rate in the week ending 24 April than the previous week and deaths in care homes from all causes increased by 595 to 7,911 .
Of the coronavirus deaths registered up to 1 May in England and Wales , 6,686 took place in care homes , which was 22.5 % of all the deaths from the virus by that point , the ONS figures show .
Labour ’s deputy leader , Angela Rayner , tweeted that the care home figures showed it was “ meaningless ” to talk of being past the peak of the outbreak as Boris Johnson claimed last week .
For the first time last week , the government began including data on deaths outside hospitals in cases where people had tested positive for coronavirus , in the daily death toll figures for the virus .
By contrast the ONS figures include all deaths where Covid-19 is mentioned on death certificates .
Italy quickly became a centre of the coronavirus outbreak in Europe , with the first deaths in late February , and was the first European country to move into lockdown .
As the death toll rose , so too did the number of articles unpicking what went wrong .
Italy ’s large ageing population , culture of close social interactions and densely populated cities , as well as a lack of time to prepare and a slow initial response to the virus are among the reasons cited as why the country was so badly hit .
The UK , it was said , should learn from Italy .
But now , it seems , it could be as badly struck .
Jenny Harris , the deputy chief medical officer for England , warned against international comparisons .
Speaking to MPs minutes after the ONS figures were released , she said : “ It is extremely difficult to compare between countries at the moment .
We need to not just look at the numbers clearly , but at the rates .
The obvious one is age and standardised death rates per million population .
Those are not the numbers that are routinely reported , so it is really difficult to do direct comparisons . ”

Sweden says coronavirus cases likely in country as early as November 2019 .
2020-05-05 10:45:24 +00:00 .
Sweden 's state epidemiologist Anders Tegnell says he would not be surprised if Sweden - like France - had isolated cases of coronavirus as far back as November last year .
" I think you could find individual cases among travellers to Wuhan who were there back in November and December last year , " he told Sweden 's TT news agency , when asked about the Paris case .
" That does n't sound strange at all , but more completely to be expected . "
Yves Cohen , head of intensive care at the Avicenne hospital in Paris , told BFM TV on Sunday that his staff had retested samples taken from patients admitted for pneumonia in December , and that one from December 27 had tested positive for coronavirus - even though the 53 - year - old patient had not travelled to China .
Previously , Europe ’s first case of Covid-19 was confirmed on January 24 , almost a month later .
Tegnell said he did not believe that the virus had been present in Sweden , or the rest of Europe , to a significant extent before cases began to multiply in February and March .
" There was n't a spread [ of infection ] outside Wuhan before what we saw more recently in Europe , " he said , adding that Sweden 's health authorities were not interested in retesting samples from last year .
" Right now , this is n't the sort of investigation we want to burden our health system with , " he said .
" There 's a lot of other things to do , and this wo n't lead to any new actions . "
According to Sweden 's defence forces , none of the 100 Swedish soldiers who were in Wuhan in October last year to take part in the 2019 Military World Games had tested positive for coronavirus .

Apple starts to reopen its stores, but U.S. shoppers have to wait .
2020-05-05 07:10:14 +00:00 .
Apple is starting to reopen some of its stores around the world after closing them on March 14 due to the coronavirus .
All but one of its 22 stores in Australia are set to open their doors on Wednesday , May 7 after the government there announced the easing of lockdown restrictions that have been in place for more than a month .
The one Australian Apple Store remaining closed is in Sydney as it ’s undergoing renovations .
The tech giant will also reopen its first store in Europe this week , in Vienna , Austria .
Forty - two stores that Apple shuttered earlier in the year in China have already reopened .
But U.S. shoppers hoping to visit an Apple Store will have to wait longer as the country continues to tackle the pandemic .
The last we heard was that U.S. stores would stay shut until at least early May , but there ’s no indication that Apple will be reopening them anytime soon .
We ’ve reached out to the company for an update on the situation regarding its American brick - and - mortar sites and we will update this article when we hear back .
Future visits to an Apple Store will be a very different experience for some time to come .
Keen to reassure customers and staff that it ’s doing everything to keep them safe , Apple will perform temperature checks on every visitor at the entrance , and ask everyone to put on a face covering before stepping inside .
In addition , it will place limits on the number of people coming into the store , and insist that once inside , visitors practice social distancing by keeping at least two meters apart .
With Apple Stores designed in a way to encourage people to get hands - on with its products , the company is promising to disinfect display devices regularly in case any are picked up by a person infected with the coronavirus . , or anything else for that matter .
Store opening hours will also be reduced for the time being .
The company said that for now it wants to focus on service and support at its Apple Stores , suggesting that customers use its online store to make purchases .
So what if your Apple device breaks down and your local Apple Store and repair centers are all closed ?
Digital Trends has some tips for what to do .
Clearly , the company is approaching the matter of store reopenings on a site - by - site basis after assessing local conditions regarding lockdown rules and the spread of the coronavirus .
If any virus hotspots return , you can expect that Apple will quickly shutter its stores again until more favorable conditions prevail .
We ’ll be sure to keep you posted on any developments .

Germany to reopen all shops, allow soccer matches: sources .
2020-05-05 03:57:37 +00:00 .
By Sabine Siebold and Andreas Rinke BERLIN ( Reuters ) - Germany 's state premiers will agree on measures to further ease coronavirus restrictions in a teleconference with Chancellor Angela Merkel scheduled for Wednesday , two people familiar with the preparations told Reuters on Monday .
The state premiers are expected to give the green light for large shops to reopen , probably from May 11 , the sources said .
Smaller shops are already back to business in Europe 's largest economy as long as they respect social distancing rules to slow the spread of the highly contagious novel coronavirus .
German states are also set to allow the Bundesliga soccer league to resume matches , probably from May 15 , under strict conditions without fans in stadiums , the sources said .
At the same time , state premiers will allow outdoor sports for non - professionals and children , the sources added .
The states will also agree to reopen schools for all grades step - by - step , though most children will only be allowed to go to class in rotating shifts , not on daily basis , the sources said .
Officials are also aware that " something needs to be done " to gradually reopen day nurseries and kindergartens for as many toddlers as possible to help working parents , one source said .
Germany took a further step on the long road back to post - coronavirus normality on Monday , with museums and hairdressers reopening under strict conditions , churches opening their doors for worshippers , and more car factories resuming work .
But more than a month after Germany suspended all but essential social and commercial life to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus , politicians are at odds over how far and how fast to move .
There is mounting pressure from business groups and some regional governments who are anxious to move faster on restarting economic life .
Merkel has warned that reopening too swiftly risks triggering a second wave of infections .
Germany has been more successful than other large European countries in slowing the virus ' spread - it estimates that every 100 carriers of the virus now infects only 74 others on average , well below the 100 mark where new restrictions must be imposed .
( Writing by Michael Nienaber ;
Editing by Sonya Hepinstall )

Carnival Cruise Line plans August return .
2020-05-05 01:02:58 +00:00 .
Carnival Cruise Line says it plans to gradually resume cruising in North America in August , nearly five months after it halted operations because of the coronavirus .
But operations from Australian markets will be on hold through until at least August 31 and a planned sailing from Honolulu to Brisbane on October 6 has already been cancelled .
Miami - based Carnival Cruise Line is the largest brand owned by Carnival Corporation , which also owns Princess Cruises .
Princess Cruises ' ship Princess Ruby has been linked to more than 20 coronavirus deaths and 600 infections across Australia after 2700 passengers were allowed to disembark in Sydney in March .
A Special Commission of Inquiry into the Ruby Princess will continue in Sydney on Tuesday .
Sailings from the United States will begin on August 1 or soon after , with eight ships setting off from Galveston , Miami and Port Canaveral .
Those cruises would sail to destinations including the Bahamas and Cozumel , Mexico , according to Carnival 's web site .
The US Centers for Disease Control issued a no - sail order to cruise companies on March 14 .
It was extended and is set to expire July 24 , unless the the agency decides to lift it sooner .
The CDC says infectious diseases can easily spread when crew members from a ship with an outbreak transfer to other ships .
It notes outbreaks of COVID-19 on cruise ships also pose a risk because passengers can spread the disease into communities across the world after disembarkation .
Carnival Cruise Line said it was still determining what specific measures it will take to prevent future outbreaks once it resumes sailing .
" We continue to engage with the CDC and government officials at a variety of levels about new protocols we would implement prior to a return to sailing , " the company said .
" We will also be in discussions with officials in the destinations we visit . "
Carnival said passengers will get refunds or vouchers for future travel if their cruises are cancelled .
Carnival Cruise Line has 27 ships and transported five million passengers last year .
Other cruise companies are also making plans to return to service .
Royal Caribbean says it intends to resume at least some sailings on June 12 , while Norwegian Cruise Like plans to restart some operations on July 1 .
Cruise companies have taken a huge hit from the new coronavirus , which stranded some ships at sea with sick passengers and crew .
A month after the no - sail order went into effect , the CDC said it knew of at least 15 ships with crew still on board showing symptoms of COVID-19 .
Carnival Cruise Line halted new sailings on March 13 .
It initially expected to be able to sail again on April 10 .

India's car market reportedly flatlined to zero sales in April .
2020-05-04 22:59:22 +00:00 .
In attempts to control the spread of the coronavirus and the COVID-19 pandemic , India has been been on lockdown since March 25 and will continue to be locked down until May 17 .
Like other countries in similar situations , India 's economy has been suffering clinging to life as a result .
According to a The Times of India , via Car and Driver , India reported exactly zero domestic car sales for the month of April .
According sales data from the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers ( SIAM ) , Indian manufacturers sold 2,773,575 passenger vehicles in the 2019 - 2020 financial year , a number that was already down from previous years of 3,288,581 in 2017 - 2018 and 3,377,389 in 2018 - 2019 .
Now , due to the unprecedented conditions created by the global COVID-19 crisis , that number will likely severely drop once again due to a current stretch of zero car sales whatsoever .
Mahindra Mahindra , one of the country 's biggest automotive manufacturers , sold 41,603 light passenger vehicles in April 2019 .
Maruti Suzuki India Limited , another automotive giant within the country , domestically sold 134,068 in April 2019 .
With production facilities and dealerships shut down , both companies watched as those numbers fell to nothing a year later .
" At Mahindra , we are working hand - in - hand with all stakeholders , especially our dealer and supplier partners , to get our ecosystem started , once the lockdown is lifted , " Veejay Nakra , Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) of Mahindra
Mahindra 's automotive division , said in a press release .
"
The safety of all our employees will be of paramount importance to us while resuming our operations .
We are hopeful that our dealerships will open soon and have stocks to cover the first few weeks of sale .
With things as they are , SIAM says the industry is losing more than $ 300 million per day , which has prompted the automakers to ask the government for tax relief assistance .
This , after India 's slowing auto industry was already in talks with the government for assistance before the coronavirus hit .

Canada’s Delayed Federal Budget Has No New Date Planned .
2020-05-04 21:02:18 +00:00 .
OTTAWA — The federal budget remains delayed until further notice .
The annual fiscal blueprint was scheduled to be tabled March 30 before it was postponed after the coronavirus pandemic prompted the suspension of Parliament .
More than a month later , with the House of Commons back in a hybrid virtual - in - person format , it is n’t clear when or if the government intends to table one in the coming months .
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Monday that a budget is “ usually pretty accurate ” in laying out a roadmap for economic measures .
This year is different , he suggested .
“ Right now , we ’re in a situation where there is a tremendous degree of uncertainty as to what the economy could look like six months from now , what the economy could look like three months from now , what ’s going to happen in the coming weeks , ” Trudeau said during a news conference outside his Ottawa home .
He said his government has been “ extremely transparent ” since the start of the COVID-19 crisis about the billions promised for families and small businesses in these “ unprecedented ” times .
Watch : Workers can get emergency benefit or wage support but not both , PM warns .
Story continues below video .
Asked about the possibility an economic update , generally seen as a “ mini budget , ” could be released this spring , Trudeau said in French that “ nothing is off the table . ”
With provincial governments beginning to map out recovery plans to remove physical - distancing measures , Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer said now is the “ right time ” to plan a budget .
“ We have expressed concerns about the federal budget before the crisis , ” he said , referencing continued criticism fromConservatives about government spending .
Last week , the parliamentary budget officer released a report forecasting the federal budget to increase from $ 24.9 billion in 2019 - 2020 to $ 252.1 billion in 2020 - 21 — the “ largest budgetary deficit on record . ”
“ Now that we have been impacted by the ...
Continue reading on HuffPost

Donald Trump defends handling of coronavirus crisis as 'enormous evidence' Wuhan lab to blame .
2020-05-04 17:10:49 +00:00 .
Accused of reacting too slowly to the initial reports of the coronavirus outbreak in China , Donald Trump tonight defended his handling of the crisis .
His administration has come under fire over its response after the first US case was reported on January 21 .
Critics have said thousands of lives could have been saved if the administration had acted faster .
But this was dismissed by the US president on Twitter tonight .
" Intelligence has just reported to me that I was correct , and that they did NOT bring up the Coronavirus subject matter until late into January , just prior to my banning China from the US , " he wrote .
" Fake News got it wrong again , as always , and tens of thousands of lives were saved by my EARLY BAN of China into our Country .
" The people that we 're allowed were heavily scrutinized and tested U.S. citizens , and as such , I welcome them with open arms ( sic ) ! "
Mr Trump reportedly received his first briefing on January 23 and another five days later , on January 28 .
A travel ban on anyone who had been in China in the previous 14 days , apart from US citizens , was introduced on February 2 .
With more than 1.1 million cases of coronavirus in the US and a death toll of over 68,000 , the administration 's handling of the crisis is likely to dominate the November election .
Earlier in the day US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said there was " enormous evidence " that the global coronavirus pandemic started in a laboratory in the Chinese city of Wuhan .
Appearing on ABC 's This Week , he ratcheted up tensions between Washington and Beijing by laying the blame for the disaster , which has claimed nearly a quarter of a million lives across the world , at China 's door .
Most experts believe the virus originated at Wuhan 's wet food market and transferred from live animals – probably bats – to humans .
But Mr Pompeo joined Donald Trump in pinpointing the source of the virus to the nearby Wuhan Institute of Virology .
" There 's enormous evidence that that 's where this began , " he said .
" We said from the beginning , that this was a virus that originated in Wuhan .
We took a lot of grief for that from the outset , but I think the whole world can see now .
Remember , China has a history of infecting the world , and a history of running sub - standard laboratories . "

Despegar May Drop Its Acquisition of Mexican Travel Agency Best Day as Crisis Takes Toll .
2020-05-04 17:03:46 +00:00 .
Events can overtake optimism as shown by the sharp strategy shift since January or Despegar , the largest online travel agency in Latin America .
Despegar ’s chief financial officer Alberto Lopez Gaffney said on March 5 , “ We are very positive , very positive on the year that we ’re looking ahead . ”
At the time , the company was modeling only a mild impact due to the coronavirus pandemic , on the thought that outbound travel from Latin America to Europe and Asia would drop .
Executives also continued to tout an acquisition the company had announced in January for Best Day , one of the largest travel agencies in Mexico , for $ 136 million .
Fast forward to Monday , and Lopez Gaffney told investors during an earnings call that the gross bookings for the online travel agency had contracted during the second half of March by more than 95 percent , year - over - year , by an undisclosed amount .
He also said Despegar wanted to exit from the deal or else see significant changes to Best Day ’s valuation and the timing of payments .
The purchase price had been 17 times Best Day ’s earnings before interest , tax , depreciation , and amortization — a measure of profit — of $ 8 million last year .
On Monday , CEO Damián Scokin acknowledged the “ challenging context ” of the pandemic but believed his company would survive and emerge stronger .
Scokin said the company ’s current cash position , with $ 225.9 million in cash on hand as of March 31 .
Despegar ’s minimal debt obligations , such as no long - term debt and only $ 17.5 million in short - term debt , will provide it flexibility even if it receives zero revenue for the next year , he said .
Get the Latest on Coronavirus and the Travel Industry on Skift ’s Liveblog
During the three months ending March 31 , revenues for the Argentina - based Despegar declined 34 percent , year - over - year , on a currency - adjusted basis to $ 76.1 million .
The company ’s net income before taxes was a loss of $ 14.5 million , compared with a gain of $ 2.6 million in the same period a year earlier .
Despegar ’s efforts to respond to the crisis have been similar to online travel companies worldwide .
Out of approximately 3,000 workers , Despegar furloughed 387 workers through September , laid off 566 workers , and reduced the working hours of 159 employees .
The company also froze hiring and postponed non - critical investments and expenditures , including ones related to its acquisition of Mexico ’s Best Day , to save about $ 90 million by year - end .
It also slashed its marketing to save about $ 35 million by June .
In dealing with travel cancellations related to the pandemic , Despegar provided vouchers for future travel through March 2020 , even for non - refundable purchases when suppliers cooperated .
The company has set aside $ 12.5 million for expected cancelations in the second quarter .
For more context , read , “ Latin America ’s Despegar Wants to Double Bookings by 2025 : How Realistic Is That ?
“
Subscribe to Skift newsletters for essential news about the business of travel .

Sturgeon warns of repeated self-isolation once lockdown eases .
2020-05-04 12:52:24 +00:00 .
Nicola Sturgeon has warned that people may be asked to self - isolate themselves repeatedly once ministers introduce a new “ test , trace , isolate ” policy after the coronavirus lockdown eases .
The Scottish government published a new policy paper on how it would tackle future Covid-19 infections during later phases of the pandemic , which will focus heavily on “ early and effective ” identification of new cases through testing , and then tracking down and isolating other people in contact with infected people .
The UK government has said that these five tests have to be met before they will consider easing coronavirus lockdown restrictions :
The NHS has sufficient capacity to provide critical care and specialist treatment right across the UK
A sustained and consistent fall in daily deaths from Coronavirus Reliable data to show that the rate of infection is decreasing to manageable levels across the board Operational challenges including testing and personal protective equipement ( PPE ) are in hand with supply able to meet future demand
Confident that any adjustments to the current measures will not risk a second peak of infections that overwhelms the NHS
The paper said Scottish labs would need to conduct at least 15,500 tests a day , to cover about 2 % of the population .
The NHS would also need to find and train 2,000 additional people to specialise in contact tracing .
The document said the new “ test , trace , isolate , support ” strategy would underpin the post - lockdown approach , alongside all existing measures such as physical distancing , good hygiene such as regular handwashing , use of face coverings in crowded public places and disease surveillance .
It was “ designed to help us interrupt chains of transmission in the community by identifying cases of Covid-19 , tracing the people who may have become infected by spending time in close contact with them , and then supporting those close contacts to self - isolate , so that if they have the disease they are less likely transmit to it to others . ”
Anyone who had been closer than 2 metres from an infected person for 15 minutes or more would be required to self - isolate for 14 days , the document said .
Testing capacity would need to expand dramatically to cope : Scotland ’s daily testing potential would hit 8,000 samples a day by mid - May , with another 4,000 tests a day done at the UK government ’s Lighthouse laboratory at University of Glasgow .
default
The first minister warned the policy would , in effect , become the new normal .
It would be effective once community transmission rates were at a much lower level than at present , she indicated .
“ It is important to stress that “ test , trace , isolate , support ” will be most effective when levels of infection are low – lower than now – and stay low , and that its success relies on all of us knowing and agreeing what to do if we have symptoms , and being prepared to self - isolate when advised to do so .
“ This will not be easy .
In this next phase , we will be asking people to self - isolate , not for their own benefit , and not because we know for certain that they have contracted the disease , but in order to protect others in case they have .
“
People may face self - isolation not just once , but on repeat occasions . ”

Citi names new leadership team for Asia-Pacific corporate bank .
2020-05-04 07:26:51 +00:00 .
Citigroup named the new leadership team for its corporate banking business in the Asia - Pacific region on Monday , following the promotion of the former regional head of the unit in February .
Kaleem Rizvi , who currently heads the corporate and investment bank in parts of South America , Central America and the Caribbean , will serve as Asia - Pacific head of corporate banking and relocate to Hong Kong from Bogota .
He replaces Gerry Keefe , who snagged the top global role in treasury and trade solutions corporate and public sector sales in February .
Keefe had led the American bank ’s corporate banking business in Asia since 2016 .
At the same time , Christie Chang will take the new role of Asia - Pacific corporate banking chairwoman , in addition to her existing position as head of Taiwan banking , capital markets and advisory and president of Citibank Taiwan .
“ We look forward to this new leadership building further on the strong relationships we have across the region with corporates , financials and public sector clients , ” Jan Metzger , Asia - Pacific head of banking , capital markets and advisory , said in a statement .
The corporate bank provides services to large companies , financial institutions and government institutions , including cash management , trade finance and structured products .
Citi reconfigured the corporate banking unit around important trade corridors in Asia four years ago to better capture business , such as China to southeast Asia .
Citi ’s institutional clients ’ group , which includes the corporate bank , as well as its investment banking and capital markets business , reported a 15 per cent increase in revenue in Asia to US$ 2.6 billion in the first quarter .
The leadership changes come at a difficult time for banks as the coronavirus pandemic has weighed on economic activity globally and forced lockdowns from Asia to Europe , cutting into first - quarter revenues .
Lenders also are facing historically low interest rates , which are likely to remain at those levels for some time as policymakers seek to stimulate economies from New York to Singapore .
Rizvi , who joined Citigroup in Pakistan in 1996 , previously served as global banking head in Nigeria and managed corporate and investment banking for Citi in Thailand , with oversight over other parts of southeast Asia .
He moved to Colombia in 2015 where he heads the corporate and investment bank for parts of the Andean , Central American and Caribbean regions .
In her new role , Chang , who joined the bank in 1989 , will provide senior regional leadership and target senior coverage for selected clients in the region , Citi said .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Citi names new leadership team for Asia - Pacific corporate bank first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Commuters stream to work as Malaysia lifts coronavirus curbs on movement .
2020-05-04 06:46:10 +00:00 .
By LIM HUEY TENG and Ebrahim Harris KUALA LUMPUR ( Reuters ) - Thousands of Malaysians joined the morning rush hour on Monday as the government eased curbs on movement and businesses for the first time in six weeks , looking to restart an economy racked by the coronavirus pandemic .
Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin has said most businesses would be allowed to resume in the effort to stem economic losses the government estimates to stand at 63 billion ringgit ( $ 14.52 billion ) since the March 18 curbs .
Heavy traffic filled thoroughfares into the capital of Kuala Lumpur , highway authorities and media said .
" You can see now , even the traffic is bad , " said Raja Muizuddin , 29 , who works in customer service .
" Literally everyone is going out using the same excuses that they 're going to work .
It 's a mass opening . "
A phased opening of different sectors every two weeks might have been preferable , he added .
" I 'm not happy . "
Many retail businesses remain closed , however , a Reuters witness said .
The government defended its relaxation despite a recent climb in infections , with Sunday 's tally of 122 new cases the highest since April 14 , for a total of nearly 6,300 infections .
Malaysia , which until mid - April had the highest number of infections in southeast Asia , imposed a partial lockdown on movement and businesses on March 18 to rein in the virus .
Nine of its 13 states have expressed reservations over the easing move , opting to delay it or toughen restrictions for fear of a surge in infections .
The largest palm producing state of Sabah , on Borneo island , said it would stick to a previous shutdown order that runs until May 12 , to ensure people " are not exposed " to the virus , Chief Minister Shafie Apdal said in a statement on Sunday .
But manufacturers are keen to get back to work , with some , such as tech firm Qdos Group , aiming to ramp up production .
Chief Executive Jeffrey Hwang said his company was focused on clearing a backlog in demand for its products , used to make medical equipment , while maintaining " absolute safety " at its facility .
" Got to turn on more overtime in May and June to cope with that , " Hwang added .
( Interactive graphic tracking global spread of coronavirus : open https://graphics.reuters.com/CHINA-HEALTH-MAP/0100B59S39E/index.html in an external browser . )
( Writing by Joseph Sipalan ;
Reporting by Ebrahim Harris and Lim Huey Teng ; Additional reporting by Krishna N. Das ; Editing by Clarence Fernandez )

UK chafes at COVID-19 death toll comparison with Italy .
2020-05-04 01:34:26 +00:00 .
By Estelle Shirbon and William James LONDON
( Reuters ) -
The British government sought on Sunday to deflect questions over a coronavirus death toll that is Europe 's second worst after Italy , with officials saying it would take a long time before the full picture became clear .
Deaths rose to 28,446 as of May 2 - just short of Italy - increasing pressure on the government which has been accused of acting too slowly in the early stages of the outbreak .
Cabinet minister Michael Gove , leading a daily coronavirus briefing , sidestepped a question on whether many lives could have been saved if mass testing had been rolled out earlier .
" This government , like all governments , will have made mistakes , but it will be impossible to determine exactly which were the areas of greatest concern until some time in the future , when we have all the information that we need , " he said .
Only the United States has suffered more deaths than Italy and Britain .
Ministers dislike comparisons of the headline death toll , saying that excess mortality - the number of deaths from all causes that exceed the average for the time of year - is a more meaningful metric .
The most recent available data showed there were almost 12,000 excess deaths in England and Wales in the week to April 17 .
Of these , just under 9,000 were linked on death certificates to the COVID-19 respiratory disease .
CORONAVIRUS ' LEAGUES '
Analysis by media including Sky News and the Financial Times suggests those figures are worse than other European countries including Italy .
However , the medical director of England 's health service , Stephen Powis , said during the briefing it would be some time before international comparisons of excess deaths could be made .
Earlier , the UK National Statistician Ian Diamond also cautioned against relying on rankings .
" I 'm not saying that we 're at the bottom of any potential league table - it 's almost impossible to calculate a league table - but I 'm not prepared to say that we 're heading for the top , " he told BBC News .
Prime Minister Boris Johnson , who returned to work on April 27 after a life - threatening , month - long battle with COVID-19 , is due to announce later this week how the government plans to ease a lockdown since March 23 that has battered the economy .
Businesses have been clamouring for information .
Gove said a new system to impede any new outbreak by identifying people infected and warning those who had come close to them to self - isolate would be trialled this week on the Isle of Wight , off the southern English coast .
Addressing complaints by some health and care workers that they were still not being provided with sufficient personal protective equipment ( PPE ) , Gove said French and German doctors had protested about similar problems .
" That does n't take away for a second from our responsibility to do even better , but it does mean I think that people recognise that this is a global challenge , " he said .
( Reporting by Estelle Shirbon and William James ;
Editing by Andrew Cawthorne )

Virus-hit home records 63 cases, 14 deaths .
2020-05-03 04:29:16 +00:00 .
Every staff member at a western Sydney aged care home at the centre of a COVID-19 outbreak will soon to be tested daily for coronavirus .
NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard on Sunday announced the new measure will be implemented in an attempt to manage the outbreak at the Anglicare - run Newmarch House nursing home .
" It seems to me , in talking with an infectious disease specialist , that 's a really good step we can take , " he told reporters in Sydney on Sunday .
" Hopefully that will make a difference . "
The nursing home , near Penrith , on Sunday confirmed the death of a 14th resident and reported two more staff members had tested positive to coronavirus .
One of the new cases is a close contact of another case and had been in isolation for a period of time .
The source of the second case is under investigation .
There are now 63 infections linked to the nursing home including 26 staff members and 37 residents since the outbreak on April 11 .
Mr Hazzard said he is " quite satisfied " Anglicare is doing everything it can , but acknowledged it was " terrible " new COVID-19 cases are being confirmed at the facility .
Investigations are underway to find out how the staff members recently became infected , with questions around whether the transmission is happening within the facility or outside .
Staff from other agencies have also had to be brought in to work at Newmarch House after a large number of Anglicare staff had to isolate when the outbreak first emerged .
" It has been extremely challenging for Anglicare .
They largely stepped up and worked with state government and the federal government to try to ensure they get staff from other sources , " Mr Hazzard said .
" They 've had to have , I think , nine separate agencies providing health staff and staff generally into the facility and that presents its own challenges . "
Mr Hazzard said about 25 per cent of the nursing home staff members have now been able to return to work since the outbreak started .
The facility is also in talks with residents who do not have coronavirus and their families about alternative accommodation options .
" Of course this is possible , provided there is a good understanding of the risks and precautionary measures that this would involve - for the resident and their families , " Anglicare said in a statement on Sunday .
NSW Health chief health officer Dr Kerry Chant said Anglicare has kept one part of the facility as a " clean wing " where residents who do not have the virus are living .
She also insisted that residents who are COVID-19 free have the option to leave the facility but it had to be assessed on a case - by - case basis .
" If they wanted to go home to their family and they were a contact of a case , we would have to make sure that everybody was fully understanding of what isolation meant and you had monitoring in place for those 14 days , " she told reporters on Sunday .
Dr Chant had previously said there appeared to have been breaches of infection control among staff with specialists deployed to the nursing home to review its procedures
Anglicare Sydney chief executive Grant Millard on Saturday said the use of personal protective equipment was foreign to a lot of people and acknowledged " there have been some failings " at the facility .

One more COVID-19 case for Queensland .
2020-05-03 02:26:54 +00:00 .
Queensland has recorded just one new positive COVID-19 test while having just 53 active cases across the state which is embracing its second day of stay - at - home restrictions being eased .
Health Minister Steven Miles announced on Sunday that the total was now 1035 confirmed cases with 976 having recovered from the virus .
Of the 53 active cases , 46 are located in the southeast of the state , four are in Cairns , two in Townsville and one in the Wide Bay region .
Nine people are in hospital with four in intensive care .
He said Queensland Health had purchased an additional 35 anaesthetic machines to deal with a worst - case scenario like New York .
" We ordered these machines as part of our surge planning when we were anticipating the worst and Queensland could look like New York City today , " Mr Miles said .
" We are fortunate it does n't and we are going to continue that planning , so if the worst happens and we do have an outbreak ... we can ensure every single Queenslander can access the care that they need . "
He said the government would consider a staggered re - opening of schools , which remain closed until May 22 other than for students of essential workers and vulnerable children .
A return would be based on whether the current easing of stay - at - home restrictions had an upward effect on case numbers .
The review is timed to occur by May 15 .
" In some ways , the restrictions that we eased this weekend will help inform that decision because ..
those restrictions were related to mobility , " he said .
" Once schools open up more , we will create a lot more mobility ...
parents taking kids to school , teachers in the classroom , kids going to and from school .
" It 's important for us to understand how that movement of people could affect the spread of the virus . "
Queensland 's first day of ' freedom ' , on Saturday , was not without its problems with police issuing more than 30 infringement notices for breaches of COVID-19 directions .
From Saturday , residents could travel up to 50 km from their home to shop , visit a park or even go to the drive - in .
However , they could only move about with members of their household and they also had to retain social distancing measures .
Yet police still handed out 32 on - the - spot fines for $ 1334 on Saturday .
So far 1664 on - the - spot fines for COVID-19 related infringements have been issued , totalling more than $ 2.19 million .
Meanwhile , passengers on a Qantas flight to Brisbane were being urged to contact Queensland health officials after one person was diagnosed with COVID-19 .
Passengers on flight QF614 from Melbourne to Brisbane on April 22 are being told to call 13 HEALTH to speak to officials , who will ask about their health and give some advice .
" We ask that passengers seated in rows 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 and 23 of this flight , who have not already been contacted by Queensland Health call 13 HEALTH and advise that you were a passenger on this flight , " a statement from the health department said .

England's Roy desperate to return to cricket, even behind closed doors .
2020-05-02 19:02:35 +00:00 .
England opener Jason Roy is desperate to get back to playing cricket , even if matches have to take place behind closed doors due to the coronavirus pandemic .
Roy , who was part of England 's World - Cup winning team last year , had a taste of playing in an empty stadium in the Pakistan Super League ( PSL ) earlier this year and said it was a bizarre experience .
" No atmosphere , " said the 29 - year - old .
"
Simple as that to be honest .
It was a very strange feeling .
" You 're used to , as a batsman , with the bowler running in , it being relatively quiet .
You learn to block out the crowd but then as soon as that ball 's done you hear the crowd going absolutely berserk and over there when that was the case it was dead silence , it was the strangest thing . "
The PSL , a Twenty20 competition , closed its doors to spectators in March before suspending the competition days later due to coronavirus .
Despite that experience , Roy , a destructive opening batsman , wants to get back to playing , with the start of the English season delayed until July 1 at the earliest .
" I 'm more than happy to play behind closed doors , " he said .
" I think it would be nice just to get out there . "
The Surrey player said the British government 's lockdown meant he was severely limited in his ability to practise .
" I 'm shadow - batting in the mirror , I 'm looking pretty good , " he joked .
"
So that 's all I can do , to be honest , hitting a tennis ball against my wall here at home , going a bit stir crazy . "
Roy said the ongoing disruption meant it could make sense to postpone the T20 World Cup , scheduled for Australia in October , but he said the players would make sure they were ready if it went ahead .
He said he was happy to start playing again when asked to by his bosses because he trusted their judgement , describing himself as a " pawn in the sporting world " .
Roy was asked about comments made by Barcelona footballer Ivan Rakitic , who told the Spanish press he was ready to take the risk of returning to action despite the virus .
Roy said : " If an individual wants to go onto the front line and put himself at risk then good on him
but if someone does n't want to , then I do n't think they should be ashamed of it either .
" Whatever 's right in that situation .
If the country desperately needs us to play cricket to make themselves feel better ...
but I 'm not sure that 's the case . "
Meanwhile , the Daily Telegraph reported that England could begin their rescheduled three - Test series against the West Indies on July 8 .
The series was originally due to start on June 4 at the Oval .
However , the spread of the coronavirus scuppered the plans .
England captain Joe Root and his West Indies counterpart Jason Holder have now been involved in talks over the rescheduling .
" Positive ongoing discussions with the ECB and CWI continued on Friday , " a spokesperson for the England and Wales Cricket Board said .
" Both boards were represented including captains , coaches , administrators and the chief medical officers from the respective boards .
" Discussions were wide - ranging including dialogue around revised schedules and COVID-19 medical and biosecurity planning .
" Meetings will be ongoing over the next few months to reach an outcome of when international cricket could potentially return . "
England 's Jason Roy is missing playing cricket

Fertility services to reopen as temporary coronavirus ban is lifted .
2020-05-02 17:49:14 +00:00 .
Fertility services will be allowed to reopen after treatment was temporarily paused due to the coronavirus pandemic , as Matt Hancock confirmed the NHS would resume its work to “ help create life . ”
With the UK now past the peak of the crisis , the Health Secretary on Friday confirmed that fertility clinics across the country would begin opening again as part of a wider restart of services .
Fertility services were temporarily suspended on March 23 , meaning that IVF treatment for tens of thousands of women and couples was cancelled .
However , speaking at the daily Downing Street press conference , Mr Hancock said he was able to share the “ really good news ” that they would begin reopening later this month .
He added : “ Earlier this week I said that we are now able to bring the restoration of NHS services .
" Few families have been untouched by the amazing advances in fertility treatments over the past generation and I know just how time - sensitive treatment can be and how important it is for the families affected .
" And I know that this treatment can change lives for the better forever .
So when I say thank you for all of you , everybody watching , for staying at home to protect the NHS of course I 'm saying thank you on behalf of the lives that you 're saving .
" But I 'm also saying thanks on behalf of the lives that the NHS can now once again help to create . "
Following his statement , the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority ( HFEA ) confirmed that clinics across the UK can apply to reopen from 11 May.
Both private and NHS clinics will be required to show they are able to provide safe treatment during the outbreak before they are given the permission to reopen .
To be considered safe , clinics will need to implement social distancing in waiting rooms , use telephone appointments where suitable , and ensure that personal protective equipment is being used where necessary .
An auditing tool will be used to ensure clinics are complying with the guidelines .
Sally Cheshire , chair of the HFEA , said : " I am pleased that the HFEA has agreed fertility clinics can apply to reopen from May 11 .
" Our priority throughout the pandemic has been to consider how treatment could resume quickly and safely for as many patients as possible and our clear plan sets out how clinics can treat and care for patients safely during the continuing Covid-19 pandemic .
" I know that the closure of clinics has been extremely distressing for patients and this will be good news for those wanting to resume treatment and have the opportunity to try for their much longed for family . "

Ireland takes small first step in coronavirus escape plan .
2020-05-02 17:29:12 +00:00 .
By Padraic Halpin and Conor Humphries DUBLIN
( Reuters ) - Ireland on Friday announced the first small steps to easing restrictions to slow the spread of the coronavirus and laid out a roadmap for a gradual re - opening of the economy from May 18 if the virus can be kept under control .
Ireland introduced stay - home measures almost six weeks ago , shutting down all but essential operations .
Making two minor initial changes , " cocooning " over 70s can leave their homes to go for a walk or a drive from Tuesday when travel limit to exercise will be extended to 5 kilometres from 2 kilometres .
A return to something approaching economic normality will commence on May 18 with a plan to reopen the economy in five three - week stages with the final stage set for Aug 18 .
If the virus worsens , the economy may go back a phase , Varadkar said .
" While there is still so much that we do n't know , tonight there is hope .
In the weeks ahead that hope will drive us forward as we plan to emerge safely from this crisis , " Varadkar said in a televised address , as Ireland joined other European countries in a mapping a way out of the crisis .
Outdoor work , such as construction , will resume on May 18 along with the reopening of some retailers like garden centres and hardware stores .
Some sports such as tennis and golf and outdoor meetings in groups of four people will also be allowed .
Small retailers where social distancing can be observed may reopen on June 8 , with a return to work for those with low levels of interaction .
A reopening of restaurants where customers can be adequately spaced out is penciled in for June 29 .
Hotels , minus hotel bars , can potentially open from July 20 .
Socially distancing pubs and nightclubs are among the last group on Aug. 10 , along with a return to work across all sectors and tourist travel to offshore islands .
Schools and universities will open again in September , Varadkar said , adding that the cabinet will meet again on Saturday to agree further measures to help businesses restart .
" LONG SUMMER "
Cases in Ireland rose to 20,833 , with 1,265 deaths .
While 221 new cases marked the lowest daily rise since April 1 , Ireland 's chief medical officer reiterated hospital admissions were too high for restrictions to be lifted .
Adding a note of caution , the Health Minister described the plan as " a flexible menu of options . "
Unemployment rocketed to 16.5 % last month from just 4.8 % in February as a result of the shut down that began in mid - March and will lead to what was Europe 's fastest growing economy to shrink at least 10 % this year , according to official forecasts .
Highlighting the difficulty at firms that are still open and trying to operate while implementing measures to protect workers ' health , Ireland 's agriculture minister said six clusters of two or more coronavirus cases had been confirmed at six meat plants .
Chambers Ireland , the country 's largest business group , said the plan was a " glimmer of light " but publicans said they were being treated as " second class citizens " by having to stay closed at least six weeks longer than restaurants , their representative body said .
The announcement was also broadly welcomed by other political parties .
" It 's going to be a long summer and we will have to live with this virus for quite some time , " said Fianna Fail leader Micheal Martin , who may take over from Varadkar during the plan if their parties can form a new government with others .
" Public health and safety and the well being of our people , particularly our over 70s , has to be uppermost in our decision making and I subscribe to that . "
( Reporting by Padraic Halpin .
Editing by Jane Merriman and Chizu Nomiyama )

U.K.s Johnson names new son with tribute to doctors who treated him for COVID-19 .
2020-05-02 15:50:12 +00:00 .
Britain 's Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his fiancée , Carrie Symonds have announced the name of their new baby son , born Wednesday .
Their new arrival will be known as " Wilfred Lawrie Nicholas Johnson " , Symonds wrote on her Instagram page Saturday .
Symonds , 32 , an environmental activist and former official in Johnson 's ruling Conservative Party said the name Wilfred came from the Prime Minister 's grandfather and Lawrie from her grandfather .
Nicholas was inspired by the names of two doctors , both called Nick , who treated Johnson when he was sick in hospital with COVID-19 last month .
" I could n't be happier .
My heart is full , " Symonds wrote alongside a picture of her cradling her new son .
Wilfred Johnson was born healthy at University College Hospital in London Wednesday morning , she said , adding that the couple wanted to thank their " fantastic " maternity team .
The Prime Minister , 55 , recently recovered from COVID-19 after spending days in the intensive care unit of a London hospital .
He was discharged on April 12 and thanked staff with Britain 's National Health Service " for saving my life . "
Symonds , said she also had COVID-19 symptoms while pregnant but was not tested .
Johnson , returned to work this week as the United Kingdom recorded more than 27,000 deaths from COVID-19 — giving it one of the highest death tolls in Europe .
Some have criticized his government 's response to the crisis .
For years Johnson 's private life has been the subject of some speculation , fueled in part by his repeated refusal to confirm how many children he has .
He has been married twice before and fathered four children with his second wife Marina Wheeler , a prominent barrister .
The couple separated after 25 years in September 2018 and later divorced .
In 2013 , when Johnson was Mayor of London , appeal court judges ruled that the public had the right to know whether he had an extramarital affair with a woman who gave birth to his daughter .
This is his first child with Symonds , and their wedding would be the first for a sitting prime minister in some 250 years .

Almost 900 Tyson Food workers in Indiana test positive for coronavirus per report .
2020-05-02 13:56:28 +00:00 .
Around 890 employees at a Tyson Foods pork - processing plant in Logansport , Indiana , have tested positive for COVID-19 , a report from NBC News finds .
The Indianapolis Star , part of the USA TODAY Network , reported that the Logansport plant had previously suspended operations for a single day , on April 20 , for deep cleaning and sanitizing .
But after reopening , it quickly closed again , with officials saying it would stay shuttered until all 2,200 workers were tested for the coronavirus and the company deemed the facility safe for workers .
Hli Yang , a spokeswoman for Tyson , declined to confirm the number who have tested positive for the virus to NBC News .
President Trump signed an executive order Tuesday compelling companies like Tysons to reopen the shuttered plants amid growing fears of breaks in the food supply chain and shortages of household staples chicken , pork and beef .
Tyson increases bonuses for frontline workers
Along with this , Tyson Foods announced it is increasing bonuses and short - term disability coverage due to coronavirus .
While other companies are increasing hourly rates , Tyson is using a bonus method to increase frontline employee salaries .
The company is now offering $ 120 million in “ thank you bonuses ” for 116,000 U.S. frontline workers and truckers .
This increase in bonuses is up from the $ 60 million announced in early April .
The company is moving up the first $ 500 bonus payment to early May.
The second $ 500 bonus will be paid in July .
Team members who can not come to work due to illness or child care will continue to qualify ; however , bonus eligibility will depend on attendance .
“ We understand that everyone , including our team members , is anxious during this challenging time , ” said Liz Croston , spokeswoman for Tyson .
“ We believe information is the best tool for fighting the virus and so , we ’re working to keep our team members informed and are also encouraging them to tell us what they ’re experiencing , so we support them in the best possible way . ”
Get me out of here !
:
Americans flee crowded cities amid COVID-19 Food spending :
Here 's how to save money and still eat well
Tyson Foods is also increasing short - term disability coverage to 90 % of regular pay until June 30 for team members who are unable to work due to illness .
All company information is translated into several languages .
“ We relaxed our attendance policy in March to encourage workers to stay at home when they ’re sick , ” Croston said .
“ We ’ve also been educating team members on COVID-19 , including the importance of following CDC guidelines away from work . ”
Contributing : Josh Rivera , USA TODAY
A car passes in front of a Tyson Foods Inc. , sign at Tyson headquarters in Springdale , Ark.
More
This article originally appeared on USATNetwork : Tyson increases bonuses for workers , as report finds 890 with COVID-19

Countries must ease lockdowns slowly, be ready for virus to jump back - WHO .
2020-05-02 13:09:35 +00:00 .
By Stephanie Nebehay and Kate Kelland GENEVA / LONDON ( Reuters ) - Countries must lift lockdowns gradually , while still being " on the look - out " for COVID-19 and ready to restore restrictions if the virus jumps back , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) said on Friday .
Vulnerable people in institutions , including those in long - term care facilities , prisons and migrant dormitories , must be protected , its top emergencies expert Dr. Mike Ryan said .
Even if the virus is coming under control , communities must know to still follow physical distancing and hygiene measures , and testing of suspect cases must continue , he said .
" It 's really important that as countries ease those measures that they are constantly on the look out for a jump in infections and in particular are dealing with transmission in special settings , " Ryan told a news conference .
The virus has spread in facilities for the elderly in Europe and North America , while in Singapore it has infected migrant workers in dormitories , he said , adding : " Because a spark in a situation like that turns into a fire very very quickly . "
The WHO recognises the difficulty for governments to maintain lockdowns during the pandemic , " for social , psychological and economic reasons " , Ryan said .
" So we are very anxious that we can move to a situation where the disease can kept under control with less severe measures , " he said .
" But at the same time we want to avoid a situation where we release measures too easily and then we bounce back into intense transmission and we have to do it all over again , " he said .
Even as some Western countries begin easing lockdowns , there are worrying trends of spread in countries from Haiti to Somalia and Yemen , Ryan said .
He also cited Sudan , South Sudan , Syria , Yemen , Afghanistan , Sierre Leone , Central African Republic , and a " serious cluster " in Kano , northern Nigeria .
Regarding the new coronavirus that first emerged late last year in the central Chinese city of Wuhan , he reiterated that scientists examining its genetic sequences have assured the WHO that " this virus is natural in origin " .
WHO director - general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus gave a robust defence of his and the WHO 's " timely " actions in declaring the new coronavirus an international emergency at the end of January .
The Jan. 30 declaration was made in " enough time for the rest of the world to respond " because at that stage outside China there were only 82 cases of infection and no deaths , he said .
Tedros said the WHO , which is seeking to lead the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic , had used the days before declaring the global emergency as time to visit China to learn more about the new virus .
During that visit , they also won a " ground - breaking agreement " with China to send in investigators , Tedros said .
Tedros , asked about relations with the United States - its biggest donor which has suspended funding after criticising WHO 's handling of the pandemic , said : " We are actually in constant contact and we work together . "
He gave no details .
( Reporting by Kate Kelland and Stephanie Nebehay and Francois Murphy in Vienna ;
Editing by Toby Chopra and Jonathan Oatis )

Locust swarms will add to Pakistan's Covid-19 crisis warns UN .
2020-05-02 11:39:17 +00:00 .
A new wave of ravening locust swarms threaten to devastate crops in parts of Pakistan , just as coronavirus risks pitching some of the country 's poorest into destitution , the United Nations agriculture agency has warned .
The voracious insects have in the past two years torn through much of the Middle East , South Asia and East Africa in their worst plague for 25 years .
The devastation is set to continue without urgent action , with the insects already breeding in Pakistan after a wet winter .
Further swarms are then set to migrate from Iran and the Horn of Africa later in the year .
Britain 's Department for International Development last month gave £ 1 million to help Pakistan fight the locusts .
Desert locust swarms can fly up to 90 miles per day and if good rains fall and conditions are favourable , can increase their numbers 20 - fold in three months .
Almost all crops and non - crop plants are vulnerable and the insects are one of the biggest threats to food security in large parts of the world .
“ In the midst of additional impacts by Covid-19 on health , livelihoods and food security and nutrition of the most vulnerable communities and populations of Pakistan , it is imperative to contain and control successfully the desert locust infestation , ” the UN 's Food and Agriculture Organisation ( FAO ) said earlier this week .
The current regional upsurge in locusts began in the Arabian Peninsula in mid 2018 .
The pests reached Pakistan last spring and the government last year declared a national emergency .
After a wet winter they are now breeding again in Pakistan , while migrating swarms are expected later in the year .
The descent of the swarms caught Pakistan unprepared last year , after a quarter of a century of limited threat .
Crop dusters and spraying equipment were found to be obsolete or in need of repair .
Half a million acres in 22 districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Balochistan and Sindh provinces are under threat .
Wheat , cotton , and oilseed crops have been affected so far .
At the same time the country is experiencing deep economic pain because of the lockdown precautions to halt the spread of the new coronavirus .
Poor daily labourers have been worst affected .
Christian Turner , High Commissioner to Pakistan , said : “ Covid-19 will impact the poorest and most vulnerable in countries like Pakistan .
That is why we are repurposing our UKAid development portfolio in Pakistan to help save lives and livelihoods .
This includes immediate health assistance through the WHO , and the rapid response to the threat to crops from locusts . ”

North Korean state media claimed Kim Jong Un made public appearances again after weeks of speculation about his health .
2020-05-02 08:32:08 +00:00 .
KCNA via Reuters
North Korean state media reported that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un made a public appearance after weeks of speculation about his health .
Business Insider could not independently confirm this report , and no photos of the event were provided .
The North Korean state news agency KCNA reported on Saturday local time that Kim visited a fertilizer plant in a region north of the capital , Pyongyang — his first public appearance since April 11 .
Kim missed the birth - anniversary celebrations of his grandfather , state founder Kim Il Sung , on April 15 , prompting rumors about the North Korean leader 's health .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
North Korean state media reported that the country 's leader , Kim Jong Un , made a public appearance after weeks of speculation about his health .
Business Insider could not independently confirm this report .
The North Korean state news agency KCNA reported Saturday local time that Kim visited a fertilizer plant north of the capital , Pyongyang — his first public appearance since April 11 .
South Korea 's Yonhap News Agency was the first to report that he had been sighted .
The North Korean leader 's younger sister Kim Yo Jong joined her brother on the visit to the fertilizer plant , according to KCNA .
She 's the most powerful woman in North Korea , and it 's been speculated she would take over as the leader of the rogue state in the event of her brother 's death .
Kim missed the birth - anniversary celebrations of his grandfather and founder of North Korea , Kim Il Sung , on April 15 , prompting rumors about the North Korean leader 's health .
Reports began to circulate that he was in grave condition while recovering from cardiovascular surgery , but South Korean officials rebutted that account .
South Korean Unification Minister Kim Yeon - chul recently suggested that concern over the coronavirus pandemic was likely to blame for Kim 's lack of public appearances .
" He had never missed the anniversary for Kim Il Sung 's birthday since he took power , but many anniversary events including celebrations and a banquet had been cancelled because of coronavirus concerns , " the minister told a parliamentary hearing , per a Reuters report from Tuesday .
Rumors have also circulated that Kim might be dead , but US and South Korean intelligence services expressed skepticism over such reports , the Washington Post reported in late April .
And recent satellite images from 38 North , a Washington - based North Korean monitoring project , showed Kim 's train had traveled to the coastal resort of Wonsan , suggesting the North Korean leader was staying in the area .
" We understand that Chairman Kim Jong Un has been in Wonsan this week , " a South Korean intelligence official told the Post .
President Donald Trump , who has met with Kim several times in a failed effort to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula , declined to comment on the North Korean leader 's health on Friday .
" I do n't want to talk about it , " Trump told reporters when asked about Kim before departing for Camp David .
" We 'll have something to say about it at the appropriate time . "
Read the original article on Business Insider

Lessons from Colombia kidnap ordeal ease Betancourt pandemic fears .
2020-05-02 07:02:21 +00:00 .
More than six years in captivity at the hands of Colombian guerrillas provided a crash course in confinement that former politician Ingrid Betancourt says has steeled her for life under lockdown .
The former Colombian senator and presidential candidate says she can tap into that hard - won experience now that she is confined to a house alone in Oxford , England , where she is studying for a PhD in theology .
Betancourt spent six and a half years deep in the Colombian jungle , a prisoner of FARC rebels , following her kidnap in 2002 .
" I spent years isolated from my colleagues during the kidnapping so let 's say this is something I already know . "
The 58 - year - old has quickly established a routine under lockdown in England , getting up , starting work , and taking breaks , including going for a run , at the same time every day .
" That format balances me a lot because I can feel what I 'm doing is productive .
I do not feel alone . "
Key to it all is what she calls " space management . "
" When I was in captivity , I had my neck tied to a tree .
When you are tied up , the space you have available to move around is very limited . "
- Changing places - "
What I did is that I compartmentalized it , so I had a space where I used to eat , I moved with the chain to another space to do a physical exercise routine , I moved to another space just to read and think .
I always changed places .
And that helped me feel freer because I could choose where I was .
That is something I do at the moment . "
Having a clear mind is important in the current crisis , she says .
" Betting that things are going to turn out in the best way ...
That does not exempt one from having terrible moments , but despite the pain , when time passes and one looks back , one realizes that very positive things remain . "
Betancourt 's father died during her years of captivity , exposing her to a similar situation to people who are now unable to say a final goodbye to their relatives because of fears over the spread of the coronavirus .
" When I learned in the jungle that my father had died , I practically went crazy but you have to breathe .
You learn to continue living , to breathe , to eat , to walk ... to continue existing . "
Difficult as it may seem , there are benefits to the pandemic , says Betancourt , and lessons to be learned .
" When they return to normal life , people are going to have the feeling that there are things in this life of confinement that they are not going to want to lose .
" They can get out of the urgency of always running after things .
Suddenly everything stops and you start to think ' Is all this so necessary ? ' " " Do I have to be running up and down or can I find a formula where I can manage to be the owner of my own life ? "
French - Colombian politician and former FARC hostage Ingrid Betancourt speaking at a conference in Bogota , Colombia in May 2016
Former Colombian politician Ingrid Betancourt in June 2018 during a presentation in Botoga by the coalition for peace

'Let Us In': Protesters Storm Michigan Capitol Building in Anti-Lockdown Demonstrations .
2020-05-02 06:18:31 +00:00 .
A group of protesters , some carrying firearms , crowded inside the Michigan State Capitol in Lansing on Thursday , April 30 , to oppose Gov Gretchen Whitmer ’s stay - at - home order , according to local news reports .
The demonstration began Thursday morning on the lawn outside of the capitol , but protesters later “ demanded ” to be let inside the building , the Detroit News said .
In this video , demonstrators chant “ let us in ” as they appeal to be let into a legislative session .
Jason Howland , one of the organizers of the rally , told WLNS that the goal of the protest was “ to get a no vote on the extension of the emergency declaration from the senate , and beyond that , the goal is to continue pushing forward until we have our rights back . ”
Local news reported that the state of emergency was set to expire on April 30 .
The governor had asked the legislature to extend it for 28 more days , but the Michigan House adjourned for the week on Thursday afternoon without extending the state of emergency .
However , Whitmer , citing emergency power laws , unilaterally extended the state of emergency until May 28 .
As of April 30 , Michigan reported 41,379 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and 3,789 deaths .
Credit : Brendan Gutenschwager via Storyful

Elon Musk's $750 million Tesla payday could be threatened by the coronavirus shutdown he slammed as 'fascist' .
2020-05-02 05:32:08 +00:00 .
Mike Blake / Reuters
There 's a twist to Elon Musk 's repeated calls to reopen America : He is on the verge of a $ 750 million payday , which might not happen if Tesla 's factories stay closed .
On Tesla 's first - quarter earnings call Wednesday evening , the billionaire said the shutdown of the company 's main Fremont , California , plant " should be identified as a serious risk " before he launched into an expletive - ridden tirade .
" I would call it forcibly imprisoning people in their homes against all their constitutional rights .
That 's my opinion , and breaking people 's freedoms in ways that are horrible and wrong and not why people came to America or built this country — what the f--- .
Excuse me , the outrage .
It 's just outrage . "
He went on to call the orders , which are intended to slow the spread of the coronavirus until mass testing and vaccinations can be implemented , undemocratic .
" If somebody wants to stay in their house , that 's great .
They should be allowed to stay in their house , and they should not be compelled to leave , " he said .
" But to say that they can not leave their house , and they will be arrested if they do , this is fascist .
This is not democratic .
This is not freedom .
Give people back their goddamn freedom . "
Tesla 's stock price has largely shrugged off the broader market rout triggered by the pandemic , leaving Musk on the brink of the massive incentive package first approved by shareholders in March 2018 .
More importantly , the company 's market value has once again climbed above the key threshold of $ 100 billion .
If that market value is sustained for six months , the first part of Musk 's compensation package will be unlocked .
While Musk is worth about $ 40 billion ( a number that fluctuates based on daily market moves ) , his income includes relatively little cash .
More than half of his wealth is in Tesla stock , of which he 's the largest holder , with another $ 14 billion tied up in SpaceX , according to Bloomberg estimates .
In December , Musk told a jury he was short on cash , and he has previously mortgaged many of his California homes .
If Tesla can continue to keep its market capitalization above $ 100 billion — a value well above its Detroit competitors , which produce far more cars in a given year — for six months ( on a trailing 30 - trading - day average ) , Musk will unlock one of 12 award tranches of 1.69 million options .
Once awarded , Musk has to hold the shares , which are worth $ 350.02 , for five years .
" If the value of Tesla 's closing stock price continues near the levels seen in late April 2020 , the first market capitalization milestone of $ 100 billion is expected to be met during the second quarter of 2020 , " the company said in a regulatory filing this week .
California 's Alameda County , which includes Fremont , extended its shelter - in - place order through May 31 this week , meaning Tesla could not resume full production until two months into the three month reporting period .
That financial impact wo n't be reported until July .
" It is startling to us that TSLA shares are again trading at $ 800 ( and as high as $ 870 in the aftermarket Wednesday ) , " Ryan Brinkman , an analyst at JPMorgan , said in a note to clients Thursday .
That high price suggests " investors are imprudently disregarding substantial risks and negative developments . "
Read the original article on Business Insider

Coronavirus latest: at a glance .
2020-05-02 04:33:16 +00:00 .
Key developments in the global coronavirus outbreak today include : 1 million people have recovered
According to Johns Hopkins University data , more than a million people have now recovered from coronavirus infection , with the total currently at 1,014,524.Infections worldwide stand at 3,256,570 .
More than 233,300 people have died in the pandemic so far .
US jobless toll amounts to 18.4 % of working - age population
The White House let its two - week - old economic reopening guidelines expire on Thursday as half of all US states forged ahead with their own strategies for easing restrictions on restaurants , retail and other businesses shuttered by the coronavirus crisis , Reuters reports .
Thirty million Americans have filed for unemployment benefits since 21 March .
Trump claims he has seen evidence that Covid-19 originated in Wuhan lab
When the president was asked if he has seen anything that gives you a “ high degree of confidence ” that coronavirus originated at the Wuhan Institute of Virology , US President Donald Trump replied : “ Yes , I have . ”
His own government experts say the virus was ‘ not manmade or genetically modified ’ .
US intelligence agencies have been under pressure to link coronavirus to Chinese labs .
Australia ’s prime minister , Scott Morrison , later said of the lab theory : “ What we have before us does n’t suggest that is a likely source ” .
Protestors , some armed , gather inside Michigan state capitol
Hundreds of protesters , some armed , gathered inside Michigan ’s state capitol on Thursday as state lawmakers debated the Democratic governor ’s request to extend her emergency powers to combat coronavirus .
Some of the protesters shouted anti - government slogans , including comparing the state ’s Democratic governor , Gretchen Whitmer , to Hitler .
“ Some of my colleagues who own bullet proof vests are wearing them , ” the state senator Dayna Polehanki wrote on Twitter .
Major US airlines will require passengers to cover their faces during flights American Airlines , Delta Air Lines and United Airlines said Thursday they will soon require passengers to cover their faces during flights , following the lead of JetBlue Airways , Reuters reports .
Boris Johnson says UK now ‘ past the peak ’
Johnson promised to set out next week how schools and workplaces could safely reopen once lockdown restrictions were eased , as he claimed the UK was past the peak of the coronavirus outbreak .
Despite announcing an increase of 674 in the death toll of the virus , taking it to a total of 26,771 , the prime minister suggested the worst was over .
British BAME Covid-19 death rate ‘ more than twice that of whites ’
The death rate among British black Africans and British Pakistanis from coronavirus in English hospitals is more than 2.5 times that of the white population , according to stark analysis by the Institute of Fiscal Studies .
UK food banks face record demand
The first two weeks of the coronavirus lockdown triggered an unprecedented rise in food bank use as the economy was hit and household incomes plunged , data from hundreds of emergency food aid charities reveals .
Jacinda Ardern very popular after lockdown
An opinion poll in New Zealand has found the prime minister ’s approval rating jumped to 65 % during the country ’s nearly five - week strict lockdown .
It puts her in a strong position ahead of this year ’s general election .
Her Labour party also did well , achieving a 55 % approval rating .

Fact Check: New York legislators did not just vote a pay raise during the coronavirus shutdown .
2020-05-02 01:09:35 +00:00 .
The claim : New York state lawmakers voted to raise their pay during the state shutdown over the coronavirus
A posting on Facebook by a candidate for the New York state Legislature claimed lawmakers voted themselves a pay raise during the coronavirus crisis .
Vic Furman , president of the Land Owner Advocates of New York , posted on April 27 : " While NY is shut down NYS Legislators gave Cuomo and themselves the largest Pay raise in History .
All while screaming NY is broke "
Furman , a community activist in Chenango Forks , New York , is one of four candidates running in the Republican primary for the New York Assembly from the 122nd legislative district , about 140 miles southwest of Albany .
In January 2019 , the Legislature did receive the first of a three - stage raise , which was approved by a temporary committee , the New York State Compensation Committee in 2018 .
Planned raises for 2020 and 2021 have been blocked by the courts .
Under a 2015 law , the state Commission on Legislative , Judicial Executive Compensation was already scheduled to meet later this year to decide whether state lawmakers should get an additional pay raise over the next four years .
Lawmakers last saw their base pay increased from $ 79,500 to $ 110,000 in 2019 , the first pay raise in 20 years .
The increases in 2020 and 2021 – now blocked – would have bumped up the total to $ 130,000 .
A salary increase for Gov. Andrew Cuomo , which was recommended by a state Compensation Committee , was approved by the Legislature in its 2019 budget .
The measure calls for Cuomo 's salary to increase to $ 225,000 in 2020 and $ 250,000 in 2021 , which would likely make him the highest - paid governor in the nation .
On April 3 , during the coronavirus crisis , the Legislature approved a $ 177 billion budget that included a measure allowing the committee to also consider judicial salaries this year , but that did not involve legislative raises .
The committee 's recommendations take effect unless the legislature steps in to change them via law .
A misleading claim ?
In response to an inquiry about his Facebook post , Furman told USA TODAY on May 1 that he had " no intent to mislead " and would clarify his position .
He emphasized that pay increases were being carried out during a budget crunch .
" While millions of Americans in NY are left without income , with the present budget crisis , at the very least our Albany Leaders should have set the example and put the raises on hold , " he added in a written statement .
" There is no way that the budget shortfall was not already in play before the 2019 budget was adopted , " Furman writes .
" There is no reason an Executive order from the Governor could not have been suspended .
The proof of this is in the politics of Albany as Cuomo said no raises until the 2019 budget was passed in a timely manner without saying a time frame . "
" My Facebook statement is based on the fact that during this national emergency our leaders in Albany decided to line their pockets on the backs of taxpayers IN 2020 when the other option was to suspend their raises until we are all getting a paycheck .
Our ruling : False
The New York legislature did not vote to raise the salaries for lawmakers or Gov. Andrew Cuomo during the just completed session in the midst of the statewide shutdown .
This is FALSE .
Our fact - check sources : Thank you for supporting our journalism .
You can subscribe to our print edition , ad - free app or electronic newspaper replica here .
Our fact check work is supported in part by a grant from Facebook .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Fact Check : NY lawmakers did not just OK pay raise during shutdown

Prison sentence for 'Hot Pockets' heiress delayed amid coronavirus .
2020-05-02 00:55:08 +00:00 .
Hot Pockets heiress Michelle Janavs , ensnared in the sweeping college - admissions scandal , had her prison sentence — set to begin next week — delayed due to the coronavirus outbreak .
Janavs , sentenced to five months behind bars for paying a fixer to get her daughters into the University of Southern California , had been ordered to surrender on Thursday but now may remain free until at least June 30 , according to U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton .
But the judge ruled against Janavs ' bid to have her entire sentence served under house arrest .
" The COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented and continually evolving cause of concern and the Court is cognizant of the particular transmission risk in penitentiary facilities , " Gorton wrote in a ruling handed down Thursday .
However , " this judge will not forfeit his obligation to impose a sentence that is warranted by a defendant 's criminal conduct . "
Gorton left the door open for another delay if the outbreak has n't improved by this summer .
“ If the public health crisis has not abated by the time of the extended report date , the court will entertain further motions , ” the federal judge in Boston wrote .
Janavs , whose family developed the wildly popular microwaveable snack before selling their company , had pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud in the far - reaching college admissions scandal .
The Newport Beach , California , resident admitted that she pledged $ 300,000 to " Operation Varsity Blues " fixer Rick Singer for help in fraudulently boosting college qualifications of her two daughters .
Another " Varsity Blues " offender , investment executive Douglas Hodge , had been ordered to report to prison on Monday to begin nine months behind bars .
He too was denied house arrest by Gorton , but then had his sentence delayed as well .
Hodge paid $ 850,000 in bribes from 2008 until 2012 to get four of his children into USC and Georgetown University as fake athletic recruits , prosecutors said .

Bill Gates says US testing data is 'bogus' because it still takes 3 to 4 days to get results .
2020-05-02 00:33:28 +00:00 .
Getty
Bill Gates said at a CNN town hall on Thursday night that US testing data was " bogus " because of testing inequality and slow turnaround .
" The United States does not prioritize who gets tested , " he said .
" And the United States does not make sure you get results in 24 hours . "
The US is testing about 200,000 people a day for the coronavirus , but it can take several days before Americans are told whether they have tested positive or negative .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Bill Gates has called the US 's coronavirus testing data " bogus " because of testing inequality and slow turnaround .
The 67 - year - old billionaire philanthropist discussed the US coronavirus response on Thursday night during CNN 's global town hall with the hosts Anderson Cooper and Dr. Sanjay Gupta .
The US is now testing about 200,000 people a day .
Experts from Harvard University have suggested that to fully " remobilize the economy , " the US needs to be testing 20 million people a day by midsummer .
Gates said that while the US was conducting a greater number of tests each day than it did earlier in the crisis , the latest testing did n't accurately reflect the country 's population , particularly those in low - income areas .
" The United States does not prioritize who gets tested , " he said .
" And the United States does not make sure you get results in 24 hours . "
Testing in the US remains a long and complicated task , and it can take several days before people are told whether they have tested positive or negative for COVID-19 .
" If you get your test results within 24 hours so you can act on it , then let 's count it , " he said , adding that people were most infectious within the first three to four days after infection and might continue to interact with others and spread the virus until they have definitive results .
" What 's the point of the test ? " he said .
" That 's your period of greatest infectiousness . "
Gates added that residents of low - income neighborhoods had lesser access to testing facilities and were not prioritized , despite indications that the virus has taken a disproportionate toll on marginalized communities .
" Our system fails to have the prioritization that would give us an accurate picture of what 's going on , " he said .
Gates has been warning about the risk of a pandemic for years , previously saying a global health crisis could wipe out 30 million people in less than a year .
He told the Financial Times in April that COVID-19 was the " biggest event that people will experience in their entire lives " and that a viral outbreak similar to this one could happen " every 20 years or so . "
His foundation , which has committed billions of dollars to the research of other infectious diseases including HIV / AIDS , has already pledged over $ 250 million in response to COVID-19 .
According to the foundation , the funds are being used to help poor communities prepare for the virus and are helping accelerate the detection and containment of the virus .
Earlier this week , Gates said in an interview with the Financial Times that his charity was giving " total attention " to the coronavirus pandemic .
Read the original article on Business Insider

More than 9,000 fines for coronavirus lockdown breaches .
2020-05-01 14:52:32 +00:00 .
More than 9,000 fines have been issued for flouting Covid-19 lockdown rules as police warn people will get “ restless ” stuck at home with summer approaching .
Data released by the National Police Chiefs ’ Council ( NPCC ) on Thursday shows 8,877 fixed penalty notices ( FPNs ) have been recorded by forces in England between March 27 and April 27 , while 299 were issued in Wales over the same period .
Deputy Chief Constable Sara Glen said reports of anti - social behaviour more than doubled to around 215,000 in the four weeks to April 26 , compared to about 106,000 in the same period last year , with the rise believed to be linked to social distancing breaches .
But she said enforcement of the Government ’s restriction of movement regulations remains relatively low with 194,000 coronavirus - related reports to police and just 0.02 % of the population issued with a fine .
NPCC chairman Martin Hewitt said police face a different challenge when regulations are relaxed and more people are allowed out of their homes .
“ There ’s an inevitability that as the weeks progress , this is harder for people
and we are moving into warmer weather and I think everyone would accept that , ” he said .
“ I think it ’s inevitable that people will get restless .
“ This is now quite an extended period of time .
“ This is hard on everybody adapting their lives .
“ We would assess that over the weekend we sensed across the country a little bit more traffic on the roads and a few more people out and about .
“ But having said all of that , we are still seeing the same level of compliance from people . ”
Police have been given powers to hand out a £ 60 penalty , that is reduced to £ 30 if paid within two weeks , for breaches of the lockdown rules , with the fine doubled for each repeat offence up to a £ 960 maximum .
Mounted police on patrol in Whitley Bay , Northumberland ( Owen Humphreys / PA )
More Of the 43 regional police forces in England and Wales
, Thames Valley Police has recorded the highest number of fines , with 649 , while Warwickshire issued the fewest , with just 22 .
In England , 4,152 fines were issued up to April 13 , with a further 4,725 handed out in the two weeks up to April 27 .
Some 391 were for repeat offenders , with one person fined six times , three people fined five times and six people fined four times .
The NPCC admitted a total of 49 fines have been wrongly issued to under 18s and will be withdrawn as officers do not have the power to issue the notices to children .
Story continues
Ms Glen said younger people were more likely to breach the lockdown rules , with figures showing around eight out of 10 people fined were men , a third were aged between 18 - 24 and another third aged 25 - 34 .
“ The vast majority of the fines that we ’re seeing enforced are people actually not complying , being out in public spaces where they do n’t have a reasonable excuse to do so , not listening to the officers ’ advice in respect of engaging and explaining to the extent where the officer then has to issue a ticket to secure compliance , ” she said .
Avon and Somerset Police officers patrol the parks in Bristol ( Ben Birchall / PA )
More
“ There are some definite correlations when it gets hot and when it is good weather where we see troublesome spots , whether that ’s beaches or whether that ’s countryside , rural communities where people want to go and walk .
“ We definitely have seen that when we ’ve had hot weather , but on the whole , we are seeing , as soon as officers arrive as soon as they engage and explain , the vast , vast majority of the public are adhering to the rules . ”

Exxon Posts Historic Loss on Rout With Chevron in Retreat .
2020-05-01 14:15:24 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Exxon Mobil Corp. posted its first loss in at least 32 years while Chevron Corp. deepened spending cuts amid the economic and industrial devastation wrought by the Covid-19 contagion .
The worst may be yet to come .
Exxon reported a $ 610 million loss on Friday , the oil giant ’s first since at least 1988 , and said it ’s shutting hundreds of thousands of barrels of daily output .
Meanwhile , Chevron slashed capital spending for the second time in five weeks and accelerated supply curbs .
The results are precursors of even starker figures to come because the earnings period ended on March 31 -- three weeks before crude prices tumbled into negative territory for the first time in history .
Exxon fell 1.8 % to $ 45.63 at 9:45 a.m. in New York trading .
Chevron dropped 2.3 % .
Oil producers are slashing spending and production to cope with the collapse in energy demand that ’s accompanied coronavirus lockdowns around the world .
The downturn has destroyed billions of dollars in value , sidelined entire drilling programs , erased thousands of jobs and sent some drillers into bankruptcy .
Almost $ 3 billion in writedowns bit into Exxon ’s first - quarter results , driving a per - share loss of 14 cents that was far worse than analysts anticipated .
Oil and natural gas output rose 2 % during the period .
Despite the current downturn , Exxon maintained its long - standing optimism about future demand growth .
“ Economic activity will return , and populations and standards of living will increase , which will in turn drive demand for our products and a recovery of the industry , ” Chief Executive Officer Darren Woods said in the statement .
Woods stuck to the $ 10 billion in spending cuts announced on April 7 .
As for Chevron , full - year spending was cut as much as 13 % from the previous plan , the world ’s No . 3 oil explorer by market value said in a statement .
Chevron also will shut down as much as 400,000 barrels of daily output and retire 60 % of the drilling rigs it has under lease .
The measures come just weeks after Chief Executive Officer Mike Wirth first took drastic steps to conserve cash and slow output .
Chevron ’s first - quarter net income rose to $ 1.93 a share , adjusted for one - time gains and losses , from $ 1.39 a year earlier .
Oil CEOs are facing choices they ’ve never confronted before because worldwide oil demand is forecast to slump by more than twice the annual declines seen during the worst days of the 1980s recession .
Chevron ’s worldwide production rose 6 % compared with a year earlier to the equivalent of 3.24 million barrels a day , a record for any quarter .
What BloombergNEF Says
Production shut - ins alone will not balance the oil market .
While shut - ins would remove some barrels from the market , the market will remain extremely over - supplied as travel bans eat into demand .
-- Tai Liu , analyst
Read the full report here .
Earlier this week , Exxon took the extraordinary step of freezing its dividend for the first time in 13 years .
A day later , Royal Dutch Shell Plc went a step farther and shrank payouts for the first time since World War II .
Exxon was particularly vulnerable to the pandemic ’s fallout because Woods had just embarked on an ambitious , $ 33 billion plan to reinvigorate the company ’s aging portfolio .
As oil prices plunged last month , Woods cut spending by almost one - third , mostly by suspending a major portion of the company ’s Permian Basin shale endeavors .
( Updates with share - price movements in third paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Anthony Joshua could defend heavyweight titles behind closed doors, says Eddie Hearn .
2020-05-01 13:06:32 +00:00 .
Anthony Joshua ’s first fight as the restored world heavyweight champion could take place in front of no spectators .
British boxing ’s governing body told promoters on Thursday it hopes to be able to have shows back from July after months of inactivity because of the coronavirus outbreak .
Initially , though , Bouts are expected to be held without fans , meaning Joshua ’s fight against Kubrat Pulev — the first since the Briton regained his WBA , IBF and WBO belts by beating Andy Ruiz Jr. in December — would surely be switched from its planned venue , the stadium of English soccer club Tottenham which can hold more than 60,000 spectators .
The Joshua - Pulev fight had been scheduled for June 20 before being pushed back to an as - yet - unconfirmed date because of the pandemic .
A rearranged date of July 25 has been touted .
Joshua wanted the first defence of his belts to take place in London .
Eddie Hearn , Joshua ’s promoter , said his Matchroom Boxing organisation was planning to stage “ two or three ” Saturday fight nights in July before returning with a bigger show , provided boxing and other sports get the go - ahead to return from the British government .
Hearn said he would n’t want to stage a fight in an enclosed location like a TV studio because he does n’t see how it “ does anything for the sport . ”
“ I want to build a fight camp , a different kind of environment , more dramatic , ” Hearn said in an interview with the BBC .
“ It will look spectacular on TV .
We need to dramatise it .
“ It ’s about taking over a hotel , testing all the teams , creating a sterile fight camp where no one goes in until we know they ’ve had a negative test .
It ’s about creating changing room areas , ring walks .
It will add to the story . ”
The British Boxing Board of Control said if boxing was to return in July , there would be an emphasis on “ minimal numbers ” of officials and broadcast personnel .
Medical staff were required at ringside , too .
Anyone at the events will have to have been in pre - fight quarantine and had tests for Covid-19 .
There will initially be a maximum of five fights in a show .
The BBBofC said it continues to follow advice from government and medical authorities .
PA

Why the largest-ever Arctic ozone hole just closed .
2020-05-01 12:08:58 +00:00 .
An ozone hole over the Arctic that was the largest ever recorded there has closed , according to the Copernicus Atmosphere Monitoring Service ( CAMS ) .
And its beginning and end have nothing to do with climate change , global warming or a reduction in air pollution because of the coronavirus pandemic .
It has to do simply with the weather .
CAMS monitored the rather unusual ozone hole that formed over the Arctic this spring and was reported closed April 23 .
Ozone holes are more common over the Antarctic every year , according to CAMS , but " the conditions needed for such strong ozone depletion are not normally found in the Northern Hemisphere . "
The Arctic stratosphere is usually less isolated than its Antarctic counterpart because the presence of nearby land masses and mountain ranges disturbs the weather patterns more than in the Southern Hemisphere , CAMS reports .
The total column ozone field ( in Dobson Units ) from CAMS on 29 March 2020 showing values below 250 DU over large parts of the Arctic .
( Source : Copernicus Atmosphere Monitoring Service , ECMWF )
This year , however , a particularly strong polar vortex led to the Arctic ozone hole in which most of the ozone typically found around 11 miles into the stratosphere was depleted , according to CNN .
The last time such a strong depletion was observed in the Arctic was almost a decade ago .
So , why did it occur this year ?
" The behavior of the ozone and the stratospheric polar vortex during the winter into spring is supported by a couple of research papers , " said AccuWeather Senior Meteorologist Bob Smerbeck .
" They state that the coldest and strongest polar vortex in the stratosphere and the lowest concentration of ozone over the Arctic are more likely to occur when you have a combination of a solar minimum , which we are in now , and a westerly QBO [ quasi - biennial oscillation , meaning lower stratospheric westerly winds over the equator ] , which we had from last summer through most of this winter .
" These are all naturally occurring processes , " Smerbeck said .
CLICK
HERE FOR THE FREE ACCUWEATHER APP
A polar vortex that remained above the polar region without weakening and a strong positive phase of the Arctic Oscillation ( AO ) were among a combination of factors that led the contiguous U.S. to experience higher - than - normal temperatures from December 2019 through February 2020 .
" When you have a strong polar vortex that remains in the polar region , it tends to keep frigid air pent up so that it is difficult for long - lasting outbreaks of frigid conditions to reach the middle latitudes , including portions of the Midwest and Northeast , " said AccuWeather Lead Long - Range Meteorologist Paul Pastelok .
Keep checking back on
AccuWeather.com and stay tuned to the AccuWeather Network on DirecTV , Frontier and Verizon Fios .

Futures slide as Trump threatens new tariffs on China .
2020-05-01 11:20:20 +00:00 .
By C Nivedita
( Reuters ) - U.S. stock index futures slid on Friday after President Donald Trump threatened to slap new tariffs on China over the coronavirus crisis , while Apple and Amazon became the latest companies to warn of more pain in the future .
Trump said late on Thursday his trade deal with China was now of secondary importance to the pandemic , as his administration crafted retaliatory measures over the outbreak .
The threat pulled attention back to the trade war between the world 's two largest economies that has kept global financial markets on tenterhooks for nearly two years .
Also weighing on sentiment was a 2.6 % fall in Apple Inc AAPL.O shares in premarket trading after the company said it was impossible to forecast overall results for the current quarter , even as it reported upbeat quarterly results .
Amazon.com Inc shares AMZN.O tumbled 5 % after the company said it could post its first quarterly loss in five years as it was spending at least $ 4 billion in response to the coronavirus pandemic .
Wall Street fell on Thursday as grim economic data and mixed earnings prompted investors to take profits at the end of the SP 500 's best month in 33 years , a remarkable run driven by hopes of reopening the economy from crushing virus - induced restrictions .
Markets will also keep a close eye on the ISM 's purchasing managers index ( PMI ) data , due at 10:00 a.m. ET .
The report comes a day after data showed U.S. initial jobless claims totalled 3.84 million for the week ended April 25 and personal spending tumbled 7.5 % in March , the biggest decline on record .
Meanwhile , oil majors Chevron Corp CVX.N and Exxon Mobil Corp XOM.N are expected to post their first - quarter earnings later in the day .
At 06:26 a.m. EDT , Dow e - minis 1YMcv1 were down 418 points , or 1.73 % , SP 500 e - minis EScv1 were down 53.75 points , or 1.85 % and Nasdaq 100 e - minis NQcv1 were down 207.25 points , or 2.31 % SPDR SP 500 ETFs SPY.P were down 1.82 %
The SP 500 index .SPX closed down 0.92 % at 2,912.43​ on Thursday .
( Reporting by C Nivedita and Shreyashi Sanyal in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Anil D'Silva )

Letters to the Editor: Newsom's right. Crowding beaches in a pandemic is not your birthright as a Californian .
2020-05-01 10:02:50 +00:00 .
To the editor : When I read the opening paragraph of George Skelton 's column , " Newsom could use some beach time .
It 's sad that he intends to close them amid the coronavirus crisis , " I thought he was being sarcastic .
Not Trump sarcastic , but seasoned journalist sarcastic .
Nope .
Skelton 's reminisce of his parents meeting at a Ventura beach party in the 1920s compared to the hordes of people gathering at California beaches during a pandemic in the 2020s has to be one of the worst reasons of all time for opening up our beaches .
Our beaches are still going to be here after this pandemic is gone .
Unfortunately , there will be people whose next trip to the beach will be in an urn .
If going to the beach is perfectly safe and you should forget about wearing masks when you go because " one of the ocean 's appeal is breathing in that salt air drifting in on a soft breeze , " then remember , that breeze could be carrying the coronavirus .
No , Gov. Gavin Newsom does n't need any " beach time . "
He needs to help keep all Californians alive .
Paula Del , Los Angeles ..
To the editor : Thanks to Skelton for his fine column before Newsom decided to close all beaches in Orange County .
I was so glad to see it after his fellow columnist Steve Lopez chastised everyone who went to Huntington Beach last week to enjoy a hot sunny day on the sand .
I was at the beach last weekend , and I can tell you that the people there actually were n't close to each other .
Frolicking on the beach is a danger to no one .
Lopez is a cheerleader for giving beach access to foot - stomping crowds to every last protected and hidden cove .
So I was surprised when he lectured us not to go for once .
I 'm with Skelton on this one .
Michael Forrest , Huntington Beach ..
To the editor : The L.A. Times ' coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic has been comprehensive and exemplary , but Skelton 's column was outright irresponsible .
There is no " right " to a day at the beach , and the proposed solution to have staff members keep people apart is hazardous and unworkable ; ask any lifeguard .
As for data , Skelton is invited to consult the epidemiologists who have united behind the science and come to a single conclusion : Stay the hell at home .
Quarantining is a pain , but it 's tolerable and saves lives .
The sooner we get through it , the faster we can enjoy our beautiful outdoors .
Lee Bridges , Los Angeles ..
To the editor : Skelton is right .
Newsom needs to chill out and dip his toes into the Big Blue and breathe some fresh salty air .
If all the beaches from Ventura to San Diego were open , there 's a better chance of social distancing because — what a concept — there 's more space to spread out .
Scott Marshutz , Dana Point ..
To the editor : The coronavirus is doing something odd to the Southern California psyche .
We 're not just getting used to the virus and its protocols , we 're getting used to dying , accepting it somehow as collateral damage on the road to normality .
In rushing to our beaches , not wearing masks and otherwise flouting the rules , we 're in denial , and what we 're denying could kill us .
This virus has already killed more than 1,000 people in Los Angeles County alone .
Experts say a second wave of infections is inevitable .
We must follow the experts ' prompts to survive this pandemic : Stay six feet apart , wear a mask , and spray our hands with sanitizer and our minds with plain common sense .
Saul Isler , Los Angeles

Maryland called in National Guard troops to defend coronavirus tests from South Korea against seizure .
2020-05-01 02:52:42 +00:00 .
Maryland Governor ’s office / Press release Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan told The Washington Post Thursday that National Guard troops and state police were guarding coronavirus tests that the state purchased from South Korea at a secret location to prevent the federal government from seizing them .
He said the plane carrying the tests was met by National Guard troops and state police to prevent the tests from being intercepted , adding that the protection mission is ongoing .
" The National Guard and state police are both guarding these tests at an undisclosed location , " Hogan said .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Maryland has National Guard troops and state police guarding coronavirus tests at a secret location because of concerns that they might be seized , Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan told The Washington Post Thursday .
In response to testing shortages , Maryland recently purchased half a million tests from LabGenomics , a South Korean company , for $ 9 million .
The Washington Post previously reported that Hogan was worried the federal government might seize the shipment , but it was unclear at that time which steps were taken to protect the tests .
On Thursday , he acknowledged there was some concern .
" We spent about 22 days and nights dealing with this whole transaction with Korea .
We dealt with the Korean embassy , folks at the State Department , and our scientists on both sides trying to figure out these tests , " Hogan said .
" And then at the last moment , I think 24 hours before , we got the sign - off from the FDA and Border and Customs to try to make sure that we landed this plane safely . "
The Maryland governor said when the Korean Air jet carrying the 500,000 tests flew into Baltimore / Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport , it was met by National Guard troops and state police .
Hogan said it landed there " with a large contingent of Maryland National Guard and Maryland state police because this was an enormously valuable payload .
It was like Fort Knox to us because it 's going to save the lives of thousands of our citizens . "
Hogan , who is a Republican , said he had heard reports from other states of the federal government confiscating supplies .
He specifically pointed to an incident in Massachusetts .
After 3 million masks purchased for the state were confiscated in New York , state leaders in Massachusetts turned to New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft to help bring in coveted N95 masks from China on a private plane .
" There were a couple of other states that had similar stories , " Hogan said .
He said the tests were " so important to us that we wanted to make sure that plane took off from Korea safely , landed here in America safely , and that we guarded that cargo from whoever might interfere with us getting that to our folks that needed it . "
The governor added that the test protection was ongoing , saying that " the National Guard and state police are both guarding these tests at an undisclosed location . "
Maryland 's decision to purchase coronavirus tests from South Korea drew criticism from President Donald Trump , who said the governor could have made use of available labs to help boost testing capacity .
" I do n't think he needed to go to South Korea .
I think he needed to get a little knowledge , would have been helpful , " the president said at a recent briefing .
Hogan later responded on MSNBC , saying that if there had been " an easier way " to get the necessary tests , " we certainly would have taken it . "
Maryland has more than 20,000 coronavirus cases , and the state has reported over 1,000 related deaths .
Read the original article on Business Insider

‘They miss out’: JobSeeker boost lasts five months, not six .
2020-04-30 23:51:38 +00:00 .
The $ 550 Coronavirus Supplement was initially touted to last six months , however the Department of Social Services revealed to a Senate Select Committee on Covid-19 that it will now last for just five .
The legislative end date for the period of the supplement is 24 September , five months after payments were stipulated to flow from ( 27 April ) .
This means some eligible Australians may receive $ 1,100 less than they had planned for .
What ’s more , some eligible JobSeekers wo n’t be receiving their extra payment until 11 May , Senator for the Greens , Rachel Siewert , highlighted .
“ So , in other words , they do miss out , ” Siewert said .
“ If they 're one of a group that has to report near 11 May , they actually will miss out on at least one payment . ”
The Senate Committee also addressed the ambiguity as to payment times , something which caused confusion as to when payments would flow .
Treasury documents and Services Australia said the amount would be paid “ from 27 April , ” leading many to believe that the supplement would be paid that day .
Those who had signed up for the extra supplement however were surprised to see just their regular JobSeeker amount in their bank accounts .
Centrelink confirmed on Twitter that the supplement was to be paid once Aussies had reported for the period that included 27 April .
“ People expected to get the new supplement this week ; they were n't told this information at all .
Now they 'll have to starve / wait for another two weeks ? ”
JobSeeker Jeremy Heywood tweeted at the time .
The Department of Social Services said in a social media post that payments would align with reporting periods , meaning some would receive their payments on 27 April , others on the 28 April , and others on 6 May.
“ I agree that there may have been some confusion , ” Secretary for the Department of Social Services , Kathryn Campbell said to the Senate Committee .
“ I note that sometimes , when we 're doing things very quickly , we do n't get the wording quite right . ”
The Department of Social Services said it would look to “ clarify ” the ambiguity on some websites , which caused confusion as to when payments would flow .
Yahoo Finance has contacted the Department of Social Services for comment .
Government told JobSeeker must be raised permanently
This comes as the government is told JobSeeker must be raised , after a Senate Inquiry report into the adequacy of Newstart found too many Aussies on income support were living in poverty .
“ The committee recommends that once the Coronavirus Supplement is phased out , the Australian Government increase the JobSeeker Payment , Youth Allowance and Parenting Payment rates to ensure that all eligible recipients do not live in poverty , ” the Senate stated .
However , Prime Minister Scott Morrison has previously stated the JobSeeker Payment will return to pre - coronavirus levels once the pandemic subsides .
When asked whether the increased level of JobSeeker would extend further than six months , the prime minister said : “ We put a Covid supplement in place for the period of the pandemic and that 's what we 've budgeted for and that 's what our policy is . ”
Yahoo Finance Breakfast Club .
More Follow Yahoo Finance Australia on Facebook , Twitter , Instagram and LinkedIn .

Apple's growth stalls as it deals with COVID-19's impact .
2020-04-30 21:28:21 +00:00 .
Apple released its quarterly earnings this afternoon for the first time since the COVID-19 outbreak began to reshape lives and economies , and the results are unsurprisingly mixed .
The company saw slumps in hardware sales almost across the board , but it reported a total of $ 58.3 billion in revenue -- just edging out its performance this time last year .
“ Despite COVID-19 ’s unprecedented global impact , we ’re proud to report that Apple grew for the quarter , ” CEO Tim Cook said in a statement .
Today ’s results did n’t come out of the blue .
Earlier this year , Apple confirmed to its shareholders that it would not meet its previous revenue guidance of between $ 63 billion and $ 67 billion because of a “ slower return to normal conditions ” than the company had anticipated .
Cook noted today that , before the coronavirus had begun to reach massive proportions , Apple was expecting a highly successful quarter with revenue near the top of its guidance .
In this past quarter , Apple has continued with its work as best as possible and pushed forward with new product releases , including updated versions of the iPad Pro and MacBook Air .
Those devices were released too late to have a significant impact on these results , though .
Despite raking in $ 4.37 billion from its iPad business and $ 5.35 billion off Mac sales , the company still fell short of the watermark it set this time last year .
Since it accounts for the majority of Apple 's business , it 's little surprise Apple 's iPhone business took the brunt of the damage -- sales fell from $ 31 billion in the year - ago quarter to $ 28.9 billion this time .
Apple did n't elaborate on the cause of this dramatic dip in its initial release , but soft sales in China and coronavirus - related production delays likely contributed to the situation .
Despite these sales slumps , Apple did report a few successes in this quarter .
The company 's services business -- which has quickly become one of Apple 's most crucial growth areas -- made all - time high $ 13.3 billion .
Sales in Apple 's Wearables , Home and Accessories category surged slightly , too , generating $ 6.3 billion for the company .
For now at least , Apple seems to be holding everything together quite well , but there 's one important thing to remember : This is the last quarter on the books that was n't completely influenced by the worldwide COVID-19 outbreak .
( Apple 's Q2 started at the beginning of January 2020 , before the coronavirus situation began to spiral . )
As a result , the big changes we 've all had to grapple with will be more fully reflected in the company 's next earnings release .
For instance , Apple closed all of its stores outside Greater China on March 13th , two weeks before the end of Q2 .
The effects of that decision will likely have a huge impact on Apple 's next batch of financials , as will the new iPhone SE , which seems well - positioned to help Apple gain ground with value - minded consumers .
For now , we 'll have to see how things play out ; Apple will certainly face questions about the future of its supply chains , production capability and new hardware development during its customary earnings call , and we ’ll update this story with any notable tidbits .

Zoom Clarifies It Has 300 Million ‘Participants,’ Not Users .
2020-04-30 17:58:32 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Zoom Video Communications Inc. said its virtual meeting application has 300 million “ participants ” a day , correcting an earlier claim of that number of daily active users .
Shares fell about 7 % .
The company said last week in a blog post that its number of daily users jumped 50 % to 300 million within three weeks in April .
Now , the San Jose , California - based company has clarified that number to explain it includes duplicate individuals who participate in multiple meetings a day rather than representing discrete users with Zoom accounts .
“ We want to be clear : this was first announced in our April 22 webinar as 300 million daily participants by our CEO Eric Yuan , ” Zoom said Thursday in a statement .
“ In a follow - up blog post on April 22 recapping this webinar , in addition to referring to participants as ‘ participants , ’ we also inadvertently referred to them as ‘ users ’ and ‘ people . ’
When we realized this error on April 23 , we corrected the wording to ‘ participants . ’
This was a genuine oversight on our part . ”
Shares fell to a low of $ 133.68 in New York trading .
The stock has doubled since the start of the year .
Zoom climbed more than 12 % on April 23 after the original post .
This is n’t the first time that Zoom has made a boastful assertion that was ahead of the truth .
The company had said its platform featured end - to - end encryption , the highest level of privacy , before later clarifying that it had n’t used that phrase in the way most people understood it , and the app featured a lower level of encryption .
The company has weathered other controversies surrounding its privacy lapses as it gained users and attention with millions of people confined to home in an effort to fight the spread of the coronavirus .
Zoom ’s claim of 300 million users made it look even more like the definitive social network of the Covid-19 pandemic .
Facebook Inc. and Alphabet Inc. ’s Google have announced free video - calling services for large groups since Zoom made the original claim last week .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

U.S. death toll passes 60,000 mark Trump said would mark success in coronavirus fight .
2020-04-30 16:13:27 +00:00 .
The United States passed 60,000 coronavirus deaths on Wednesday , according to data from Johns Hopkins University , more than three months earlier than had been predicted by a model the White House has frequently used .
Until recently , the 60,000 mark was touted by President Trump as a measure of success .
Just 10 days ago , Trump said that as many as 60,000 Americans were expected to die from the coronavirus .
That was far below earlier estimates of 100,000 to 200,000 from the White House coronavirus task force , and the high range of over 2 million predicted by British researchers on the assumption that no social distancing measures would be implemented .
“ Now we ’re going toward 50 — I ’m hearing , or 60,000 people .
One is too many .
I always say it , ” Trump said during a coronavirus task force briefing at the White House .
“ But we would have had millions of deaths instead of — it looks like we ’ll be at about a 60,000 mark , which is 40,000 less than the lowest number thought of . ”
To arrive at the 60,000 death benchmark , Trump and the White House were relying on the University of Washington ’s Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation ( or IHME ) , which estimated 60,308 cumulative deaths ( estimate range of 34,063 to 140,381 ) during the epidemic ’s first wave , which it expected to last through early August .
Trump and some members of the task force , including Dr. Anthony Fauci , seized upon the figure as proof its social distancing guidelines and other mitigation efforts were working .
( Appearing on NBC ’s “ Today ” show earlier this month , Fauci said it “ looks more like 60,000 than the 100,000 to 200,000 ” that U.S. officials previously estimated . )
President Trump speaks during a coronavirus briefing at the White House on April 19 .
( Tasos Katopodis / Getty Images )
More
But the UW forecast was lower than many other epidemiological models , drawing criticism from some health experts , who said it was “ overly optimistic . ”
( In an interview with Politico , IHME Director Christopher Murray said the model shows a lower U.S. death toll because it accounts for the impact of social distancing . )
On Monday , the IHME revised its U.S. death projection upward to 74,073 ( 56,563 to 130,666 ) , which Trump noted during his press briefing in the Rose Garden .
“ So , yeah , we ’ve lost a lot of people , ” Trump said .
“ But if you look at what original projections were , 2.2 million , we are probably heading to 60,000 to 70,000 .
“ It ’s far too many — one person is too many for this , ” the president added before taking credit for preventing more fatalities with his travel bans on foreign nationals from China and Europe .
“ I think we ’ve made a lot of good decisions , ” he said .
“ I think we ’ve done a great job . ”
_ _ _ _ _
Click here for the latest coronavirus news and updates .
According to experts , people over 60 and those who are immunocompromised continue to be the most at risk .
If you have questions , please refer to the CDC ’s and WHO ’s resource guides .
Read more from Yahoo News :

Amazon, Whole Foods, Instacart workers will strike Friday to protest working conditions .
2020-04-30 14:28:21 +00:00 .
Workers at some of America ’s most well - known companies including Amazon , Whole Foods , Instacart and Target plan to strike on Friday , International Workers ’ Day , citing working conditions during the coronavirus pandemic .
During their lunch breaks , employees will either call out sick or walk off the job to protest what they say are record profits for their employers made at the cost of workers ’ safety and health , The Intercept reported .
Organizers of what ’s been dubbed the May Day General Strike also shared a flyer to social media calling on customers to boycott the companies and to “ support essential workers . ”
One such post has been liked more than 12,000 times and shared more than 9,000 .
Why are workers striking ?
Workers say their employers have n’t done enough to protect them from exposure to the virus .
“ Because of the failings of our employers , many of our fellow employees have contracted this deadly virus and some have died , ” organizers wrote in a press release obtained by The Hill .
“ Although there have been some changes in company policies , they are not enough to adequately protect us . ”
A representative for Amazon , one of the companies named by organizers , told the outlet that fever checks , increased pay and protective equipment are already “ standard ” throughout Amazon and Whole Food Market locations , The Hill reported .
Amazon also objects “ to the irresponsible actions of labor groups in spreading misinformation and making false claims about Amazon during this unprecedented health and economic crisis , ” the representative said , according to the outlet .
Protest organizers and workers have also said that Amazon , specifically , has been tight - lipped about the number of coronavirus cases at its more than 175 fulfillment centers across the globe , The Intercept reported .
Jana Jumpp , an Amazon employee in Indiana said she and a small group of fellow employees have counted 500 coronavirus cases in 125 Amazon facilities using sourcing such as screenshots of internal company texts and voicemails to employees . , according to the outlet .
Though Jumpp suspects the total is actually much higher .
Amazon would not comment on the numbers compiled by Jumpp and her team , The Intercept reported .
History of coronavirus - related strikes
The May Day General Strike is the latest in a string of worker protests sparked by the coronavirus pandemic .
Instacart workers first walked off the job on March 30 , claiming that the company had ignored shoppers ’ requests for more safety precautions during the pandemic , Today reported .
Ultimately , Instacart agreed it would provide full - service shoppers with health and safety kits that included hand sanitizer , a thermometer and a reusable cloth mask , The Verge reported .
Christ Smalls , a lead organizer of the May Day General Strike , was fired from an Amazon fulfillment center in Staten Island after staging a walkout on March 31 over coronavirus safety concerns , Vice reported .
Two workers at the warehouse had tested positive for the coronavirus , and workers walked off the job to try to convince Amazon to shut down the facility to be sanitized , with workers receiving full pay during the closure , according to the outlet .
Workers for Shipt , a delivery service owned by Target , organized a walkout in early April over coronavirus safety concerns , demanding $ 5 hazard pay per order , personal protective equipment and an additional 14 days of sick leave for all workers , Vice reported .
Target ultimately said it would provide masks and gloves to Shipt shoppers and Target employees before every shift .

Two dozen people deported to Colombia on U.S. flight found to have coronavirus: sources .
2020-04-30 14:10:57 +00:00 .
By Arshad Mohammed , Julia Symmes Cobb and Frank Jack Daniel
( Reuters ) - About two dozen migrants deported from the United States on a flight to Colombia last month have since tested positive for the coronavirus , two people familiar with the matter said , adding to worries U.S. deportations could be spreading the disease .
Of the 64 migrants deported by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency ( ICE ) on a March 30 flight , approximately 24 have tested positive for COVID-19 , the disease caused by the novel coronavirus , the people said .
ICE said at the time that it then used the same plane to repatriate Americans who had been stranded in Colombia as that country began a national lockdown .
An ICE spokeswoman said detainees on the flight were screened for elevated temperatures and symptoms associated with COVID-19 .
She did not say whether any had tested positive upon arrival in Colombia .
The agency said last week that it would begin testing some migrants before they were deported to other countries , a move that came as other governments demanded more screening before deportees were put on planes .
The deportation of migrants from the United States who test positive for the virus after arriving in their home countries has caused tensions with Latin American and Caribbean governments concerned about the spread of the disease .
In Guatemala , at least 103 migrants deported by the United States on a handful of flights in March and April have so far tested positive for coronavirus .
That is around a fifth of all cases in the Central American country ..
Other infections among deportees have been found in Haiti , Mexico and Jamaica .
Colombia has reported around 6,200 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and close to 300 deaths .
Last week , the Colombian government extended its lockdown until May 11 , while allowing construction and manufacturing businesses to reopen .
A spokesman for Colombia 's migration agency confirmed arrival of the flight on March 30 with 64 people aboard , but directed inquiries about infections to health officials , who said such records are confidential .
The country 's justice ministry said in a statement at the time of the flight that those aboard had been subjected to health checks by U.S. immigration officials , the Colombian Red Cross , and Bogota 's health department at different points in the deportation process and that none had shown symptoms associated with COVID-19 .
Everyone who arrived on the flight would have to complete 14 days of obligatory isolation required of all travelers entering Colombia , the ministry said , adding it would facilitate quarantine locations for the deportees .
The deportation flight came from an airfield holding center for migrants in Alexandria , Louisiana .
Fourteen ICE employees at the facility had tested positive for COVID-19 as of April 28 , according to the agency .
( Reporting by Frank Jack Daniel in Mexico City , Arshad Mohammed and Ted Hesson in Washington , and Julia Symmes Cobb in Bogota ;
Editing by Dave Graham , Rosalba O'Brien and Himani Sarkar )

SC jobless claims decrease for second week in a row as COVID-19 pandemic continues .
2020-04-30 13:28:08 +00:00 .
South Carolina jobless claims decreased for the second week in a row , the Department of Employment and Workforce reported on Thursday .
The numbers of new unemployment claims ticked down by 7,957 the week of April 19 - 25 , and decreased by 22,552 in the past two weeks .
Though the slowdown could reflect fewer South Carolinians losing their jobs as the pandemic inches into May , a historic number of people — at least 407,000 — have already applied for unemployment benefits since the outbreak began in the state , according to DEW .
Some upstate counties are still home to thousands of new unemployment claims : 8,809 in Greenville County and 6,329 in Spartanburg County .
Richland County residents submitted 4,137 new jobless claims , while Lexington County residents filed 2,872 claims last week .
In the Lowcountry , 5,496 Charleston County residents and 5,745 Horry County residents filed for unemployment between April 19 and 25 , according to DEW .
From mid - March to the week ending April 25 , DEW paid out $ 585 million in state unemployment benefits , Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation ( FPUC ) and Pandemic Unemployment Assistance ( PUA ) .
The FPUC program , funded by the federal CARES Act , gives $ 600 extra per week to South Carolinians who previously qualified for unemployment in the state , on top of the state benefits they already receive .
The PUA program expands unemployment benefits to cover workers who otherwise would n’t qualify , or who were deeply affected financially by the COVID-19 outbreak .
South Carolina still has not began accepting claims for Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation , a third federal program that extends unemployment benefits to 39 weeks for those who have already exhausted the 20 weeks S.C. allows .
The state labor agency is handling an unprecedented amount claims , a situation that ’s expected to drain the state ’s unemployment trust fund and require South Carolina to seek federal relief later this year , officials said .
And as state health officials warn of increasing COVID-19 cases in coming weeks , business leaders are working to reopen the state ’s economy .
S.C.
Gov. Henry McMaster , who pledged to have business “ humming ” by the summer , allowed certain nonessential businesses to reopen two weeks after they were ordered to close .
He also announced the convening of a task force to help plan South Carolina ’s economic recovery .
South Carolina has not met a key benchmark set by federal health officials — a consistent 14 - day downward trend in new cases — although a recent model suggested the state might have passed its peak of COVID-19 deaths .
State Epidemiologist Linda Bell has said DHEC expects hundreds of new cases each week , into mid - May.
Public health leaders still do n’t know the full scope of the virus in South Carolina , in large part due to limited testing capabilities in the state ’s hospitals , said Tod Augsburger , CEO of Lexington Medical Center .
It is also unknown how many asymptomatic patients there are , what treatment is effective , or whether widespread immunity to the virus is possible .
What to do if you lose your job in SC because of the coronavirus

Rates Traders See Fed Stuck at Zero, or Lower, Into 2024 .
2020-04-29 21:25:31 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Bond traders see little prospect of a Federal Reserve rate increase for the foreseeable future , as they bank on borrowing costs near zero for roughly the next three years -- with some even hedging against the possibility they could go negative .
The rate on three - month eurodollar futures contracts is relatively flat and it ’s not until late 2023 or early 2024 when signs pick up that the next Fed hike appears to be priced in .
The spread between the March 2022 and 2023 contracts reflects only around half of a full quarter - point hike .
Meanwhile , there ’s been appetite for eurodollar options that protect against the scenario of negative U.S. dollar interest rates .
Fed Chairman Jerome Powell on Wednesday said policy makers are not “ in any hurry to move rates up ” after warning that the coronavirus pandemic poses considerable risks to the economy over the medium term -- or the next year or so .
The central bank left rates near zero , as expected .
“ A rate hike is just not on the agenda , ” said Jeffrey Cleveland , chief economist at Payden Rygel , which manages more than $ 114 billion .
Officials left in place relatively vague guidance on the path of rates , saying they ’d keep the benchmark target range near zero until they ’re “ confident that the economy has weathered recent events and is on track to achieve its maximum employment and price stability goals . ”
Data Thursday are expected to show that another 3.5 million Americans lost jobs in the past week as many businesses remain shuttered to halt the virus ’s spread .
“ Powell highlighted the risks to the outlook that , to me , suggest the recovery will be far more like an elongated U than a V , ” Cleveland said via email .
“ If that ’s true , then it could take years for the economy to return to pre - virus levels of economic output , ” potentially 2023 or later , he said .
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg this month predicted the Fed will hold interest rates near zero for three or more years .
That ’s more pessimistic than when the economy was last in recession .
In June 2009 when the previous recession was ending , the median forecast of economists was for the Fed to lift its benchmark rate from near zero in the third quarter of 2010 .
Instead , it took until December 2015 to tighten .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Whirlpool: New warning over fire-prone Hotpoint washing machines .
2020-04-29 21:04:39 +00:00 .
Another 55,000 washing machines in UK homes should stop being used and need repairing or replacing owing to a fire risk .
An extra 21 models have been added to the list of 524,000 Hotpoint and Indesit machines being recalled .
Owners may have checked twice previously and told their machines were safe , only now to need to check again .
Whirlpool , which owns the brands said the recall programme was ongoing despite coronavirus restrictions .
Who is affected ?
About 20 % of the Hotpoint and Indesit washing machines sold since 2014 are affected by a safety fault and need to be recalled , a process that started in January .
Seventy - nine fires are thought to have been caused by an overheating door locking system , a fault that develops over time , according to Whirlpool .
Initially , in January , the company said it needed to repair or replace 519,000 machines in UK homes , before adding another 5,000 to the list later that month .
The company said it had located 210,000 of those appliances , and had resolved 177,000 of those so far .
Now , another 55,000 have been added following further investigations .
With 21 Hotpoint models added to the list , the total number of models affected is 66 .
Jeff Noel , vice - president of Whirlpool , said : " With people spending more time at home under the current social - distancing measures , it 's more important than ever that this safety issue is tackled swiftly .
" We are deeply sorry to our customers for the concern and inconvenience this recall may cause
but we continue to take action because people 's safety is our top priority . "
Lesley Rudd , chief executive at charity Electrical Safety First , said : " It is alarming that five months into this recall we are only now hearing of these extra models which pose a risk to owners .
This new discovery throws into question the robustness of the original investigation . "
Advice for owners
Whirlpool has set up a model checker online .
Owners of Hotpoint and Indesit washing machines bought since October 2014 will need to enter the model and serial number of their appliance - found inside the door or on the back - to see if it is one of those affected .
Those who have previously checked , and been given the all clear , may need to check again .
There is also a free helpline , open every day , available on 0800 316 1442 .
Slots for a modification or replacement machine are available straight away .
All owners affected by the recall are entitled to a replacement washing machine or a repair to their existing appliance , without charge , but there is no offer from the company of a refund .
They should stop using it until an engineer has checked it , if necessary , restrict its use to a cold wash .
Whirlpool said engineers and delivery teams were equipped with protective equipment including face masks , gloves and hand sanitiser , and were practising social distancing at all times during their work , to allow them to continue during the coronavirus lockdown .
Customers did not need to physically sign any paperwork , and were called in advance of their scheduled delivery or repair appointment to make specific arrangements , the company added .
If requested , appliances could be delivered to a secure location outside a customer 's home , such as a garage or garden , so that staff did not have to enter their home , although this would mean they would have to fit the appliance on their own .

Cyprus unveils road map to easing coronavirus restrictions .
2020-04-29 20:29:18 +00:00 .
NICOSIA , Cyprus ( AP ) — Cyprus ’ president unveiled a road - map Wednesday for gradually lifting a strict , stay - at - home order over the next month that has until now helped to contain the spread of the coronavirus .
But Nicos Anastasiades said that the “ danger has n’t passed , ” as health experts note that the virus wo n’t completely go away any time soon .
He warned that “ deviations from or acts of ill - discipline ” to authorities ’ guidelines would lead to a return to lockdown conditions “ that nobody wishes . ”
Infection rate data coupled with recommendations from a scientific advisory committee will determine if the road map will remain on track , Anastasiades said .
Restrictions on movement will start to be rolled back on May 4 , with the maximum number of allows excursions outside the home increased from once per day to three .
A nighttime curfew will remain in place until restrictions are completely lifted on May 21 , when restaurants , hair and beauty salons will also reopen .
Also on May 4 , government workers are to head back to offices , construction to restart and retail shops — with the exception of malls or department stores — to open their doors .
High schools are due to reopen a week after that only for graduating students .
Churches will also be allowed to resume services on May 4 , but congregations will be limited to 10 people until June 1 , when they can operate normally in line with stipulated hygiene rules .
Individual athletes can restart training in open - air facilities on May 4 , while athletes in team sports can start practicing together two weeks later , although locker rooms will remain off - limits .
June 1 will see public beaches open to bathers , while museums , libraries and archaeological sites will start accepting visitors .
Ports will also then be allowed to start operating although no cruise ship passengers will be allowed to disembark .
The Cypriot president said the government 's cautious approach — despite appeals from the business community to quickly reboot the economy — is owed to the fact that other countries ' hasty steps to get back to business have resulted in fresh spikes in COVID-19 infections .
Anastasiades made no mention of when airports will become fully operational in the tourism - reliant country .
A ban on all flights remains in effect until May 17 .
Tourism directly accounts for 13 % of the east Mediterranean island nation 's gross domestic product .
Government officials say the country is estimated to lose at least 1.5 billion euros ( $ 1.63 billion ) or about 60 % of its tourism - generated revenue this year .
Cyprus , with a population of around 880,000 , to date counts 843 confirmed coronavirus cases and 15 deaths .

Thomas Hui, trusted aide of Li Ruigang – ‘China’s Rupert Murdoch’ – is named chairman of Hong Kong’s troubled TVB free-to-air broadcaster .
2020-04-29 16:06:10 +00:00 .
Thomas Hui To , the chief operating officer of mainland Chinese tycoon Li Ruigang ’s China Media Capital , has become non - executive chairman of Television Broadcasts ( TVB ) , in the latest move signalling Li ’s increasing influence at Hong Kong ’s largest free - to - air broadcaster .
Li , dubbed China ’s Rupert Murdoch because of his vast media empire , became an indirect investor in troubled TVB when his company bought an undisclosed stake in Young Lion , in April 2015 .
Young Lion Holdings is the largest single shareholder in TVB , owning 26 per cent .
Also on Wednesday , Mark Lee Po - on , the chief executive of TVB , was appointed vice - chairman , taking over from Li , according to an announcement by TVB .
The company approved the reshuffle at a board meeting on April 29 , it said .
The changes in top management come after Charles Chan Kwok - keung stepped down as chairman on February 4 this year .
“ The reshuffle gives the public a general impression that Li and his company intend to play a bigger role in the broadcaster , ” said Louis Tse Ming - kwong , managing director of VC Asset Management .
“ It is too early to say if this is a good or bad move for the company .
It depends on the performance . ”
Hui , aged 47 , is also an executive director of CMC , a director of Young Lion and a non - executive director of Shaw Brothers Holdings in which TVB holds an 11.98 per cent interest .
He joined TVB as non - executive director and a member of its executive committee , the company ’s highest decision - making body , in 2015 .
In February , Li was also appointed as a member of the executive committee .
The TVB building is seen in Tseung Kwan O. Photo :
Dickson Lee
More
Hui was redesignated as an executive director in March 2018 .
He holds Hong Kong permanent residency , finished high school in Hong Kong and obtained a master ’s degree in electronic engineering from Cornell University .
He had served as an executive director at Goldman Sachs ’s Hong Kong investment banking department , and worked for Merrill Lynch .
He is expected to bring to bear his international and mainland Chinese experience and connections to breathe fresh life into the struggling company .
He will receive a total of HK$820,000 ( US$ 106,000 ) a year for his roles at TVB , according to the statement .
The broadcaster posted a net loss of HK$295 million ( US$ 38 million ) for 2019 , wider than the HK$199 million loss the previous year , as advertising revenue plunged amid the protests that battered the city ’s economy and the outbreak of coronavirus further curtailed economic recovery As a result of the dire situation , TVB announced staff cuts in December .
The lay - offs affected about 350 employees from field production and supportive services , some 10 per cent of the workforce .
Additional reporting by Louise Moon
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Thomas Hui , trusted aide of Li Ruigang – ‘ China ’s Rupert Murdoch ’ – is named chairman of Hong Kong ’s troubled TVB free - to - air broadcaster first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Whirlpool: New warning over fire-prone Hotpoint washing machines .
2020-04-29 13:25:16 +00:00 .
Another 55,000 washing machines in UK homes should stop being used and need repairing or replacing owing to a fire risk .
An extra 21 models have been added to the list of 524,000 Hotpoint and Indesit machines being recalled .
Owners may have checked previously and been told their machines were safe , only now to need to check again .
Whirlpool , which owns the brands said the recall programme was ongoing despite coronavirus restrictions .
Who is affected ?
About 20 % of the Hotpoint and Indesit washing machines sold since 2014 are affected by a safety fault and need to be recalled , a process that started in January .
Seventy - nine fires are thought to have been caused by an overheating door locking system , a fault that develops over time , according to Whirlpool .
Initially , in January , the company said it needed to repair or replace 519,000 machines in UK homes , before adding another 5,000 to the list later that month .
The company said it had located 210,000 of those appliances , and had resolved 177,000 of those so far .
Now , another 55,000 have been added following further investigations .
With 21 Hotpoint models added to the list , the total number of models affected is 45 .
Jeff Noel , vice - president of Whirlpool , said : " With people spending more time at home under the current social - distancing measures , it 's more important than ever that this safety issue is tackled swiftly .
" We are deeply sorry to our customers for the concern and inconvenience this recall may cause
but we continue to take action because people 's safety is our top priority . "
Advice for owners
Whirlpool has set up a model checker online .
Owners of Hotpoint and Indesit washing machines bought since October 2014 will need to enter the model and serial number of their appliance - found inside the door or on the back - to see if it is one of those affected .
Those who have previously checked , and been given the all clear , may need to check again .
The company said it could contact 60 % of those with the newly affected models , but customers should check .
There is also a free helpline , open every day , available on 0800 316 1442 .
Slots for a modification or replacement machine are available straight away .
All owners affected by the recall are entitled to a replacement washing machine or a repair to their existing appliance , without charge , but there is no offer from the company of a refund .
They should stop using it until an engineer has checked it , if necessary , restrict its use to a cold wash .
The company said engineers and delivery teams were equipped with protective equipment including face masks , gloves and hand sanitiser , and were practising social distancing at all times during their work , to allow them to continue during the coronavirus lockdown .
Customers did not need to physically sign any paperwork , and were called in advance of their scheduled delivery or repair appointment to make specific arrangements , the company added .
If requested , appliances could be delivered to a secure location outside a customer 's home , such as a garage or garden , so that staff did not have to enter their home , although this would mean they would have to fit the appliance on their own .

It's a boy: British PM Johnson and fiancée thrilled by birth of son .
2020-04-29 12:35:16 +00:00 .
By Guy Faulconbridge and Elizabeth Piper LONDON ( Reuters ) - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson 's fiancée , Carrie Symonds , gave birth to a healthy baby boy at a London hospital on Wednesday , slightly earlier than had been expected .
Symonds , 32 , had said previously that their baby was due to " hatch " in the early summer .
It was not clear if Johnson , 55 , would take paternity leave given the government is facing the worst health crisis since the 1918 influenza outbreak .
" The Prime Minister and Ms Symonds are thrilled to announce the birth of a healthy baby boy at a London hospital earlier this morning , " a spokeswoman said .
" Both mother and baby are doing very well .
" The PM and Ms Symonds would like to thank the fantastic NHS maternity team . "
There was no announcement of a name .
The new arrival tops a tumultuous month for Johnson ; he returned to work on Monday after recuperating from COVID-19 , which had left him gravely ill in intensive care at the peak of the coronavirus outbreak .
Symonds , a former public relations executive , also had symptoms of the virus but recovered more swiftly .
BABY IN DOWNING STREET
Few British leaders have had babies while in office , although it has become more common among recent occupants of Downing Street .
David Cameron 's wife , Samantha , gave birth to their daughter , Florence , in 2010 and Tony Blair 's wife Cherie gave birth to their son , Leo , in 2006 .
Before that , Frances , the wife of John Russell , a 19th - Century Whig and Liberal politician , gave birth to two children in 1848 and 1849 while he was in office .
" Great to hear Downing Street is getting a new resident , " said Johnson 's finance minister , Rishi Sunak .
Opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer said : " Wonderful news .
Many congratulations to Boris Johnson and Carrie Symonds . "
Symonds and Johnson have been living together in Downing Street since he became prime minister in July .
They announced in February that they were expecting their first child and that they were engaged to be married .
' INCREDIBLY BLESSED '
Johnson , once dubbed " Bonking Boris " by Britain 's riotous tabloid media , has a complicated private life .
He was once sacked from the Conservative Party 's policy team while in opposition for lying about an extra - marital affair .
He has been divorced twice and refuses to say how many children he has fathered .
In 2013 , when Johnson was mayor of London , appeal court judges ruled that the public had the right to know he had an extra - marital affair with a woman who gave birth to his daughter .
Johnson 's previous marriage was to Marina Wheeler , a lawyer .
They had four children together but announced in September 2018 that they had separated .
They divorced earlier this year .
Symonds announced her engagement to Johnson in February .
" Many of you already know , but for my friends that still do n't , we got engaged at the end of last year ... and we 've got a baby hatching early summer , " she said .
" Feel incredibly blessed . "
( Reporting by Guy Faulconbridge , Elizabeth Piper and Kate Holton ;
Editing by Michael Holden and Pravin Char )

UK PM and fiancee thrilled by birth of son .
2020-04-29 11:03:01 +00:00 .
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson 's fiancee , Carrie Symonds , has given birth to a healthy baby boy at a London hospital , slightly earlier than had been expected .
Symonds , 32 , had said previously that their baby was due to " hatch " in the early summer .
It was not clear if Johnson , 55 , would take paternity leave given the government is facing the worst health crisis since the 1918 influenza outbreak .
" The Prime Minister and Ms Symonds are thrilled to announce the birth of a healthy baby boy at a London hospital earlier this morning , " a spokeswoman said on Wedneday .
" Both mother and baby are doing very well .
" The PM and Ms Symonds would like to thank the fantastic NHS maternity team . "
There was no announcement of a name .
The new arrival tops a tumultuous month for Johnson ; he returned to work on Monday after recuperating from COVID-19 , which had left him gravely ill in intensive care at the peak of the coronavirus outbreak .
Symonds , a former public relations executive , also had symptoms of the virus but recovered more swiftly .
Few British leaders have had babies while in office , although it has become more common among recent occupants of Downing Street .
David Cameron 's wife , Samantha , gave birth to their daughter , Florence , in 2010 and Tony Blair 's wife Cherie gave birth to their son , Leo , in 2006 .
Before that , Frances , the wife of John Russell , a 19th - Century Whig and Liberal politician , gave birth to two children in 1848 and 1849 while he was in office .
" Great to hear Downing Street is getting a new resident , " said Johnson 's finance minister , Rishi Sunak .
Opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer said : " Wonderful news .
Many congratulations to Boris Johnson and Carrie Symonds . "
Symonds and Johnson have been living together in Downing Street since he became prime minister in July .
They announced in February that they were expecting their first child and that they were engaged to be married .
Johnson , once dubbed " Bonking Boris " by Britain 's riotous tabloid media , has a complicated private life .
He was once sacked from the Conservative Party 's policy team while in opposition for lying about an extra - marital affair .
He has been divorced twice and refuses to say how many children he has fathered .
In 2013 , when Johnson was mayor of London , appeal court judges ruled that the public had the right to know he had an extra - marital affair with a woman who gave birth to his daughter .
Johnson 's previous marriage was to Marina Wheeler , a lawyer .
They had four children together but announced in September 2018 that they had separated .
They divorced earlier this year .
Symonds announced her engagement to Johnson in February .
" Many of you already know , but for my friends that still do n't , we got engaged at the end of last year ... and we 've got a baby hatching early summer , " she said .
" Feel incredibly blessed . "

Indians switch to bank deposits as concerns grow over debt funds .
2020-04-29 10:57:20 +00:00 .
By Nupur Anand and Abhirup Roy MUMBAI ( Reuters ) -
Rattled by the shock closure of some high - profile domestic funds investing in high - yielding debt , Indian investors are quickly moving their cash into the safety of bank deposits .
Bankers told Reuters they have seen heavy inflows into their traditional deposit schemes after one of India 's most prominent mutual fund houses in fixed income , Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund , said last week it was shutting down six credit funds .
Templeton wound up the funds due to a lack of liquidity in markets battered by the coronavirus pandemic .
Their combined assets of about 280 billion rupees ( almost $ 4 billion ) had large exposures to higher - yielding , lower - rated credit securities .
As spooked investors called for a government intervention and debt mutual funds saw record withdrawals , traditional bank deposits have gained .
" Bank deposits have picked up , as a lot of money that is getting redeemed from mutual funds is also coming to banks now , " said Sumant Kathpalia , CEO of IndusInd Bank .
Flush with cash , banks have cut deposit rates .
The weighted - average deposit rate of commercial banks is down 45 basis points since February 2019 .
Still , bank deposits grew by 9.45 % year - on - year in two weeks ended April 10 compared with a 7.93 % rise two weeks prior .
While up - to - date figures on the flows into deposits after the Templeton news will only be known next month , growth is expected to remain in low double digits in the coming months , said an executive director at a state - run bank .
Mutual funds investing in debt saw outflows of close to 1.95 trillion rupees ( $ 25.5 billion ) last month .
Retail investors have for long been flocking to tax - friendly debt mutual fund schemes on the promise that they are as safe as bank deposits and with little concern for potential credit risks in case of a default .
In 2017 , credit opportunity funds , which invest mostly in higher - yielding bonds with ratings below the top AAA investment grade , saw record inflows .
That changed a year later as a string of defaults at a major infrastructure lender sucked liquidity out of the corporate bond market .
An economic slowdown in 2019 triggered more debt defaults and exposed fault lines in the credit space .
The tipping point came last month as many investors redeemed their funds to preserve cash during a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus , and funds such as Templeton took a hit .
Prateek Pant , co - founder of Sanctum Wealth Management , said he was facing a barrage of calls from investors worried about the safety of their debt investments .
" Overall , debt funds as a category is fine .
But if you 're really losing your sleep because of that , then go ahead and put that money in a bank right now , " Pant said .
( Reporting by Nupur Anand and Abhirup Roy ;
Editing by Simon Cameron - Moore )

When can I expect my $550 coronavirus supplement? .
2020-04-29 10:11:41 +00:00 .
Some eligible Australians can expect to see their bank accounts boosted by the government ’s $ 550 coronavirus supplement , introduced with its second stimulus package back in March .
The supplement , which would see the income of anyone who received the JobSeeker payment effectively doubled , was set to flow from Monday 27 April for a period of up to six months .
However , not everyone would have received the payment on 27 April , as it ’s dependent on the individual 's income reporting cycle .
When you will receive the coronavirus supplement
In a social media post on 24 April , Services Australia confirmed payments would flow from 27 April , but would not necessarily enter all bank accounts that day .
“ You ’ll receive this with your fortnightly payment once you ’ve reported income for the period that covers 27 April , ” they stated .
If your reporting period is : 11 April to 24 April , you will get paid from 27 April 14 April to 27 April , you will be paid 28 April 22 April to 5 May , you will be paid on 6 May.
Who receives the supplement ?
If you already receive any of the following payments , you will automatically receive the $ 550 coronavirus supplement , provided you report your income for the correct periods : JobSeeker Payment ; Sickness Allowance ; Youth Allowance for jobseekers ; Parenting Payment Partnered ; Parenting Payment Single ; Partner Allowance ; Sickness Allowance ; Youth Allowance ; Austudy ; Abstudy ; and Farm Household Allowance
Will the boost be here to stay ?
The JobSeeker boost was initially enacted for six months , and while many thought it would be tough for the government to remove the boost after the six - month period , the prime minister confirmed he has no intention of doing so .
When asked whether the increased level of JobSeeker would extend further than six months , the prime minister said : “ We put a Covid supplement in place for the period of the pandemic and that 's what we 've budgeted for and that 's what our policy is . ”
Yahoo Finance Breakfast Club .
More Follow Yahoo Finance Australia on Facebook , Twitter , Instagram and LinkedIn .

Airbus Burns Through $8.7 Billion, Warns of ‘Gravest’ Crisis .
2020-04-29 07:57:38 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Airbus SE consumed an unprecedented 8 billion euros ( $ 8.7 billion ) of cash in the first quarter as Chief Executive Officer Guillaume Faury warned of the “ gravest crisis the aerospace industry has ever known . ”
Some 3.6 billion euros of the cash hit came from a payment to settle a bribery case , eating up reserves while the planemaker grapples with the coronavirus outbreak , it said in a statement Wednesday .
Airbus is battling to adapt to collapsing demand as the pandemic wipes out new aircraft sales and threatens existing orders as airlines run short of money .
Faury said the company is aiming to survive without state support but that its customers and supplier base need as much help as they can get .
“ The crisis is really unprecedented , ” he said on a call .
“ It ’s hitting all regions of the globe and all industries at the same time so the role of governments is obviously key .
One of the major risks for us is suppliers going bust . ”
Airbus customer British Airways said Tuesday it will cut as many as 12,000 jobs , or close to 30 % of the total , to help survive a downturn in travel that could last for years , while Deutsche Lufthansa AG is locked in talks with the German government over a multibillion - euro bailout and could seek court protection if it ca n’t reach a deal .
Shares of Airbus traded 2.5 % higher as of 9:05 a.m. in Paris .
The stock has declined almost 60 % this year , as has arch - rival Boeing Co.
The U.S. company , which has also been roiled by the long - term grounding of is 737 Max model , is due to report earnings later Wednesday .
Faury said measures taken by Airbus so far , which include cutting annual production by slightly over one - third and temporarily laying off more than 6,000 workers , may be just the start , and it will review the situation in June when there may be more visibility into the direction the crisis is headed .
Airbus is looking to furlough staff in Germany , and will put more French workers on leave .
“ The resizing of the company will be made not only looking at the minus 35 % adaptation we ’ve done recently but also the likely scenario moving forward , ” Faury said .
Agency Partners analyst Sash Tusa said the cash outflow was worse than the 6.3 billion euros he ’d predicted and leaves Airbus with just 3.6 billion euros in net cash .
The Toulouse , France - based manufacturer said it has reduced anticipated capital spending this year by about 700 million euros to ease demands on its sources .
The company had already extended credit lines and clamped down on expenses to give it access to 30 billion euros .
While Airbus delivered 122 aircraft in the first quarter , the full impact of the coronavirus was n’t initially felt , Faury said , though 60 planes could n’t be handed over because of the outbreak .
Deliveries in the second quarter “ will be very low , ” he said .
The company plans to ship about 600 jets this year based on its reduced build rates , down from a record 863 in 2019 , though the tally may be cut further .
Suppliers will feel a squeeze in the second quarter when cash payments drop , and will then need support , the CEO said , especially since many are already under pressure after the idling of the Max reduced revenue from Boeing .
First - quarter adjusted earnings before interest and tax fell 49 % to 281 million euros and the company swung to a net loss .
Faury said the company is still assessing the implications of Covid-19 and ca n’t yet provide a financial outlook for the full year .
( Updates with share price in sixth paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Thuan Pham, who fled Vietnam as a child and became Uber's CTO in 2013, is leaving the company .
2020-04-29 02:03:21 +00:00 .
Thuan Pham , hired as Uber ’s chief technology officer by former CEO Travis Kalanick back in 2013 , is leaving the company in three weeks , the ride - share giant revealed today in an SEC filing that came out as a piece today in The Information reported that massive layoffs at Uber are being proposed to preserve some of the company 's precious capital .
The outlet suggests the discussed cuts could impact upwards of 20 percent of Uber 's 27,000 employees , roughly 800 of whom could theoretically come from Pham 's engineering team , which currently comprises 3,800 people .
Said an Uber spokesman to The Information 's Amir Efrati : " As you would expect , the company is looking at every possible scenario to ensure we get to the other side of this crisis in a stronger position than ever . "
Uber has been hard hit as much of the country and world remains at home , awaiting a vaccine for -- or at least more testing around -- COVID-19 .
Last Thursday , Uber said it expects an impairment charge of up to $ 2.2 billion in the first quarter due to the outbreak and for revenue to nosedive by $ 17 million to $ 22 million in the quarter .
( The company will report its first quarter results next Thursday . )
Pham has meanwhile become the longest - serving top executive at Uber , outlasting not just Kalanick , who was forced to resign as CEO back in 2018 , but also the members of Kalanick 's so - called " A team " of trusted advisors , including Ryan Graves , who was one of Uber 's first employees a board member of the company until last May ; Uber 's former head of product , Daniel Graf ; Eric Alexander , who was Uber ’s president of business in Asia and was fired in 2017 over his handling of a rape investigation in India ; and Emil Michael , Uber 's controversial former SVP of business who left the company in 2017 , though it remains unknown if he resigned or was fired .
Pham -- who was recruited by Kalanick from VMWare , where he 'd spent the previous eight years -- stood to make more than $ 200 million from Uber 's IPO last year , according to Business Insider .
At the time , he owned 5.4 million shares .
It 's a true American success story .
At age 12 , Pham escaped Vietnam with his mother and brother in a fishing boat that was reportedly carrying dozens of other refugees .
After first spending 10 months at camp in Indonesia that he has described as having no sanitation and offering only a carp over their heads , his family later arrived in Maryland and Pham , an excellent student , wound up studying at MIT .
Pham would go on to nab a master 's degree in electrical engineering before being drawn to job in Silicon Valley , where his first job was at Hewlett Packard .
He said after three years , he " got bored " and joined Silicon Graphics , whose cofounder , Jim Clark , would later cofound Netscape with a young Marc Andreessen .
Pham spoke at a startup event early last month , before the Bay Area instituted its shelter - in - place rules .
You can check out the talk below .

‘I can’t tell you’: Trump adds to Kim Jong-un confusion amid speculation over North Korea leader’s health .
2020-04-29 01:38:30 +00:00 .
Donald Trump added to the confusion about the health of North Korean leader Kim Jong - un by claiming he has a “ very good idea ” about the dictator ’s condition .
Mr Kim ’s whereabouts and health status have been a subject of intense speculation after Seoul - based website Daily NK reported last week he was recovering after undergoing a cardiovascular procedure on 12 April .
“ I ca n’t tell you exactly , ” the US president said when asked about Kim ’s condition at a White House news conference on Monday .
“ Yes , I do have a very good idea , but I ca n’t talk about it now .
I just wish him well . ”
Suggesting the mystery would soon be cleared up , Mr Trump added : “ I hope he ’s fine .
I do know how he ’s doing relatively speaking .
We will see – you ’ll probably be hearing in the not too distant future . ”
Yet the president appeared to contradict himself only moments later when he said “ nobody knows where he is ” .
It comes as the North Korea authorities publishing a letter purportedly from Mr Kim to South African president Cyril Ramaphosa – dated 27 April – as “ proof ” that he is alive and well .
State media have previously reported that he sent greetings to Syrian president Bashar Assad and Cuban president Miguel Diaz - Canel .
Not seen in public since 11 April , the leader ’s absence from public ceremonies on the birth anniversary of his grandfather Kim Il Sung on 15 April was unprecedented – leading to days of speculation over his health .
South Korean officials have cautioned against reports that Kim may be ill and emphasised they have detected no unusual movements in North Korea .
Donald Trump speaking at a news conference on 27 April , 2020 ( AFP via Getty Images )
More South Korea ’s minister for North Korean affairs said on Tuesday that Mr Kim may have missed the key holiday because of concerns over the coronavirus , not because he is ill .
“ It is true that he had never missed the anniversary for Kim Il Sung ’s birthday since he took power , but many anniversary events including celebrations and a banquet had been cancelled because of coronavirus concerns , ” Kim Yeon - chul said at a parliamentary hearing .
He said there were at least two instances since mid - January where Kim Jong Un was out of sight for nearly 20 days .
“ I do n’t think that ’s particularly unusual given the current [ coronavirus ] situation . ”
A special train possibly belonging to Mr Kim was spotted last week at the North Korean resort town of Wonsan , according to satellite images reviewed by 38 North , a Washington - based North Korea monitoring project .
Despite Mr Trump ’s claim to have a “ very good idea ” about his condition , experts said nobody outside North Korea knew exactly what was happening .
Cheon Seong Whun , a presidential secretary during the South Korea ’s previous conservative government , said Seoul had struggled for several decades to get a strong grip on the location and health of North Korea ’s top leadership .
“ Anybody who says they know something for certain is just writing a novel , ” Mr Cheon said .
Additional reporting by agencies
Read more
Kim Jong - un ‘ is alive and well ’ , South Korean presidential aide
says

Photo gallery | Americans killed from COVID-19 surpass fatalities in Vietnam War .
2020-04-29 01:00:08 +00:00 .
The U.S. death toll from COVID-19 reached a somber milestone on Tuesday , surpassing the number of American fatalities in the Vietnam War .
More than 58,300 Americans have died from the disease , compared to the 58,220 deaths from the Vietnam War , according to the National Archives .
A youngster salutes on April 18 in Boston during the funeral procession for Boston Police Officer Jose Fontanez , who died of COVID-19 .
( John Tlumacki / Boston Globe )
More Omar Rodriguez organizes bodies Wednesday at a funeral home in the Elmhurst neighborhood of Queens , N.Y.
Before COVID-19 , the funeral home handled an average of seven or eight bodies a week ; it is now seeing more than 40 .
( Spencer Platt / Getty Images )
More
Workers wearing personal protective equipment bury bodies April 9 in a trench on Hart Island in the Bronx , N.Y. ( John Minchillo / Associated Press )
More Gravediggers carry a casket April 7 at Mount Richmond Cemetery on Staten Island in New York .
( David Goldman / Associated Press )
More Omar Rodriguez at work April 22 in the Gerard J. Neufeld funeral home in New York City .
The decades - old funeral home primarily serves an immigrant community in Queens that has been hit hard by the coronavirus .
( Spencer Platt / Getty Images )
More Medical workers wheel a deceased patient on a stretcher behind a privacy screen Monday at the Brooklyn Hospital Center .
( Stephanie Keith / Getty Images )
More
Michael Chiavola from the Miracle Worker cleaning service sprays disinfectants at Francis P. DeVine Funeral Home on April 21 in Oyster Bay , N.Y. ( Kevin Mazur / Getty Images )
More Paul Harris helps lower a cement vault into a grave just dug at Mount Hope Cemetery in Boston on Saturday .
" I have the important job of taking care of people 's loved ones , " he said .
( John Tlumacki / Boston Globe )
More Paul Harris , a gravedigger for the city of Boston for 15 years , at work at a new veterans section at Mount Hope Cemetery .
( John Tlumacki / Boston Globe )
More
People watch from a Chicago overpass as a procession of police vehicles leads a hearse carrying the remains of Sgt .
Clifford Martin , a 25 - year veteran of the Chicago Police Department , on April 21 .
Martin died April 10 of complications from COVID-19 .
( Scott Olson / Getty Images )
More Firefighters place the remains of Edward Singleton , a 33 - year veteran of the Chicago Fire Department , into a hearse following his funeral .
Singleton died of complications from COVID-19 .
( Scott Olson / Getty Images )
More
A casket of a victim of COVID-19 is brought to a van for burial at a busy Brooklyn funeral home .
( Spencer Platt / Getty Images )
More Wanda DeSelle , 76 , died of COVID-19 on April 3 in Madera , Calif. Funeral director Sarah Smith , far right , and other members of Jay Chapel funeral home bring the body to the grave site on April 8 .
Immediate family members had to remain in their cars as DeSelle was buried .
( Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times )
More Family members load the casket carrying Charles Jackson Jr. , who died from COVID-19 , April 15 at the Angelus Funeral Home in Los Angeles .
( Jason Armond / Los Angeles Times )
More James Plummer , funeral director at Angelus Funeral Home in Los Angeles , sprinkles rose petals over the casket as Nicholas Jackson , center , mourns his father , Charles Jackson Jr. ( Jason Armond / Los Angeles Times )
More
Gloves worn by pallbearers are draped on the casket of Charles Jackson Jr. , who died of COVID-19 , on April 15 at the Inglewood Park Cemetery in Los Angeles .
( Jason Armond / Los Angeles Times )
More

Millions Are Waiting for Jobless Benefits .
2020-04-29 00:28:08 +00:00 .
Millions of people who have lost their jobs due to the coronavirus are having trouble getting the unemployment benefits they are entitled to receive .
About 26 million people have applied for unemployment since the beginning of the outbreak , but an unknown number have been unable to do so due to overwhelmed reporting systems and outdated technology at the state level .
And some workers who have managed to make a claim are still waiting to receive their benefits as states struggle with the unprecedented volume of people seeking assistance .
Some people ca n’t get through :
According to survey data released Tuesday by the Economic Policy Institute , for every 10 people who filed for unemployment benefits from mid - March to mid - April , three to four were unable to get through to their state systems , and another two did n’t try because they thought it was too difficult to do so .
The survey results suggest that in addition to the 21.5 million people who filed for benefits during the four - week period from March 22 to April 18 , another 7.8 to 12.2 million people would have applied had they been able to do so .
“ These findings imply the official count of unemployment insurance claims likely drastically understates the extent of employment reductions and the need for economic relief during the coronavirus crisis , ” the study ’s authors wrote .
State systems are breaking down : Some states ca n’t handle to sheer number of benefit applications they are receiving , as old technology , understaffing and years of insufficient investment take their toll .
One result is that applicants are kept waiting for states to determine their eligibility to receive benefits .
According to an analysis by CQ Roll Call , based on four weeks of applications through April 11 , the hard - hit states of Florida , Ohio , Georgia and New Jersey have failed to process hundreds of thousands of applications ( see the chart below ) .
The reasons for the failures are complex and include a confusing gap between state - level rules and new federal guidelines that enable a wider range of workers to receive benefits – a distinction that requires some applicants to reapply for the federal program after being rejected for the state one .
“ The feds ... put guidance out that said you have to apply for unemployment insurance , get rejected , and then apply for pandemic unemployment insurance , which was a complete disaster , ” Melissa DeRosa , a top aide to New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo , said last week .
Lots of frustration : The crisis is moving so fast that it can be hard to nail down solid numbers , but stories about frustrated people struggling with the unemployment system are not hard to come by .
Jim Hewes , who lost his job in Orlando in March , told Reuters that it took him more than two weeks file a benefit claim online and he is still waiting to hear about the paper form he mailed in April .
“ It ’s a shame how you work for so many years and then when you need it , you ca n’t get it , ” Hewes said .
“ It ’s almost set up to fail . ”
Like what you 're reading ?
Sign up for our free newsletter .

6 monkeys given an experimental coronavirus vaccine from Oxford did not catch COVID-19 after heavy exposure, raising hopes for a human vaccine .
2020-04-28 23:30:42 +00:00 .
Ed Jones / AFP via Getty Images Monkeys given an experimental vaccine from the University of Oxford appear to have resisted the novel coronavirus .
Six rhesus macaques given hAdOx1 nCoV-19 in Montana did not fall ill despite heavy exposure , The New York Times reported Monday .
There is no guarantee the vaccine will work on humans , but successful animal tests are a promising early sign .
The Oxford Vaccine Group began human trials for the vaccine last week .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Related Video : What Could Be the Fastest Way to End the Coronavirus Crisis ?
Six monkeys given a vaccine developed by the University of Oxford are said to be coronavirus - free 28 days after sustained exposure to the virus .
The result is a promising early sign for the vaccine , which is also undergoing human trials .
A working human version , however , remains months away even in the best - case scenario .
The monkey experiment was carried out in late March by government scientists at the Rocky Mountain Laboratory in Hamilton , Montana , The New York Times reported Monday .
Six rhesus macaques received a vaccine produced by the Jenner Institute and the Oxford Vaccine Group .
They were then exposed to heavy levels of the coronavirus that were known to have previously sickened other monkeys .
These monkeys suffered no ill effects , however , and remained healthy at least 28 days later , The Times said .
" The rhesus macaque is pretty much the closest thing we have to humans , " Vincent Munster , the head of the Virus Ecology Unit at the laboratory , told The Times .
The first human trial of the hAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine from the Oxford Vaccine Group .
More YouTube / University of Oxford
The Jenner Institute , working as part of the Oxford Vaccine Group , is leading the global race for a coronavirus vaccine .
The UK government has pledged £ 20 million , or $ 25 million , to the trial .
The vaccine given to the rhesus macaques is called hAdOx1 nCoV-19 .
Human trials began Thursday and are expected to be finished in September .
The process of developing a vaccine is long , and even having a usable product by September would be unusually fast .
Read more :
There are more than 70 potential coronavirus vaccines in the works .
Here are the top efforts to watch , including the 16 vaccines set to be tested in people this year .
On Monday , the world 's largest vaccine maker , the Serum Institute of India , said it would not wait for the trial to end and was preemptively making 40 million doses to save time in case it worked .
The Serum Bio - Pharma Park in Pune , India .
More Serum Institute Sinovac Biotech , a Beijing - based company , is also hunting for a vaccine to the coronavirus .
It found last week that its vaccine also appeared to be effective in macaques .
Human trials have now begun .
Humans and macaques share about 93 % of their DNA .
Just because a vaccine appears to work on a macaque does not mean it will work on humans , however .
As many as 80 coronavirus vaccines are in development , but some are choosing to skip the animal - testing stage to save time .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Uber CTO Steps Down as Company Reportedly Weighs Job Cuts .
2020-04-28 21:57:48 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Uber Chief Technology Officer Thuan Pham is stepping down after seven years as an executive at the company .
Uber Technologies Inc. has been hit hard by the coronavirus ’s impact on the travel industry , as global transportation has ground to a virtual standstill .
The company may also be mulling job cuts of as much as 20 % , according to tech news site the Information , which also reported on Pham ’s departure earlier on Tuesday .
Uber had about 27,000 employees at the end of last year .
An Uber spokesman declined to comment on the possible job cuts .
“ As you would expect , the company is looking at every possible scenario to ensure we get to the other side of this crisis in a stronger position than ever , ” he said .
Members of Uber ’s engineering team will be performing Pham ’s duties until the company finds a permanent CTO , the spokesman said .
A search effort is currently underway .
Pham , born in Vietnam , left the country as a refugee in 1979 and immigrated to the U.S.
He earned a masters in electrical engineering and computer science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and worked at a variety of tech companies , including as an executive at software maker VMware Inc. , before joining Uber as its CTO in 2013 .
Pham notified the company on April 24 he was resigning effective May 16 , according to filings .
In a statement , Uber Chief Executive Officer Dara Khosrowshahi said he was “ grateful ” for Pham ’s tenure .
“ As the leader of our engineering organization for the last seven years , Thuan has made important contributions that have helped make Uber into the global technology platform it is today , ” Khosrowshahi said .
In the statement , Pham said that Uber ’s engineering team was functioning at “ peak productivity , ” and added , “ We have built robust system scale and stability , and are well prepared to face the future . ”
Uber , which is unprofitable , cut more than 1,100 jobs last year .
Before the coronavirus pandemic hit , the company had said it would turn a quarterly profit by the end of this year .
Earlier this month the company withdrew its financial forecast for 2020 and said it would write down about $ 2 billion in investments impaired by Covid-19 .
Uber is slated to report earnings for the first quarter of 2020 on May 7 .
( Updates with context starting in the first paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Prisons may have to remain in lockdown for a year to prevent 'explosion' of coronavirus .
2020-04-28 20:48:03 +00:00 .
Prisons may have to remain in lockdown for another year , public health officials have warned , raising fears of increased tensions in jails as inmates see restrictions being eased in the rest of society .
A Public Health England ( PHE ) report has warned that restrictions will be needed until the " end of the financial year " which would take it to April 2021 .
" In the absence of a vaccine or effective treatment , risks of large outbreaks in the prison estate will remain , ” said the PHE report .
" These risks may be escalated later in the year relating to relaxation of wider community restrictions , some return of normal police and court activities . "
It also said the number of prisoners believed to have been infected with coronavirus may be up to six times as many as the published figure .
It found 1,783 " possible / probable " cases - on top of 304 confirmed infections across jails in England and Wales .
However , it said the measures introduced - a ban on family visits , shielding vulnerable prisoners , isolating new arrivals for 14 days and those with symptoms for seven days - have been successful in reducing the number that need to be early released , potentially to just “ hundreds ” of hundreds .
PHE originally suggested 15,000 prisoners might have to be released to create the extra space needed to isolate prisoners .
However it now says the isolation measures have reduced that target to 5,000 .
A reduction in the prison population by 3,000 due to fewer offenders coming through the courts and up to 1,000 extra temporary cells means fewer than 1,000 may need to be released early .
Just over 30 prisoners have been released early out of the 4,000 originally proposed because of restrictions limiting it to low level offenders who have only two months left of their sentences , the safety checks required and a suspension of the scheme after the accidental release of six inmates .

2021 Ford F-150 production launch pushed back to late September .
2020-04-28 18:55:10 +00:00 .
See Full Image Gallery Production delays due to the coronavirus outbreak are reportedly hitting Ford ’s best - selling F-150 truck , which is due for a major update this year .
The F-150 Gen 14 forum reports that manufacturing launch dates are moving back more than a month at two plants that build the pickup .
Production will now begin Sept. 28 at Ford ’s Dearborn Truck Plant , back from Aug. 17 , and Oct. 26 at the Kansas City Assembly Plant , a delay from Sept. 14 .
The new dates are provided by a forum administrator , who also says the order books will open June 15 , not May 11 as first planned .
That makes the last date to order a 2020 F-150 May 29 , the site says , and it would suggest that an official reveal — probably digital , as opposed to an in - person media event — is coming soon .
The new timelines come as Ford , along with its Detroit competitors , are targeting May 18 to begin resuming production at plants that have been idled since March .
The biggest news regarding the all - new F-150 is that the new generation will herald electrified variants , with a hybrid version planned , followed by a battery - electric version .
Also planned is an updated F-150 Raptor .
The latter two are not expected before 2022 .
Ford is offering six different engines for the all - new model , according to the forum , including the 3.5 - liter twin - turbo V6 that is believed to power the hybrid version alongside an electric motor .
We also know the new F-150 will get redesigned front fascias with new grilles and a more sculpted body .
Inside , there ’s a new standard 8 - inch infotainment display and an optional 15 - inch version , both running Sync4 , and a full digital gauge cluster .
Related Video : Click here to See Video
You Might Also
Like

NYC Reopening in May Would Be a ‘Miracle’; N.J. Several Weeks Away .
2020-04-28 18:55:09 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Governor Andrew Cuomo said it would be a “ miracle ” if New York City and the downstate region reopen in two weeks .
New Jersey , meanwhile , reported a higher increase in coronavirus deaths than New York for the first time .
Some regions of upstate New York will have met Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines , with declining cases for 14 consecutive days , Cuomo said .
“ Not in New York City , not downstate , unless a miracle happens .
Please , please . ”
New York has been “ on pause ” since March 22 , with businesses shut down under an order that expires May 15 .
Reopenings -- and re - closings , if necessary -- will be dictated by data , Cuomo said .
He said he ’ll decide by week ’s end whether schools will reopen this term .
“ I ’m not going to trade off economics for life and death , ” Cuomo said Tuesday at a press briefing in Syracuse .
“ We will come back in downstate New York . ”
In New Jersey , the state is “ a number of weeks away ” from reopening , Governor Phil Murphy said Tuesday in Trenton .
While the state is seeing progress in hospitalizations and ventilator use , it reported 402 more deaths , more than New York ’s 335 .
While Murphy said that may be due to weekend fatalities not being reported until Monday , it shows how New Jersey ’s recovery is trailing New York ’s .
New York , the epicenter of the U.S. outbreak , had 295,106 cases as of April 27 .
New Jersey , which has the second - highest number of cases , reported a total of 113,856 , with increases seen in southern parts of the state as northern cases decline .
During the first two weeks of April , cases more than doubled in New York and more than tripled in New Jersey , data show .
During the past two weeks , cases increased by 46 % in New York and 66 % in New Jersey .
While Murphy has said he ’s hesitant to look at regional reopenings of New Jersey , Cuomo has highlighted the varying infection rates in different parts of his state .
In New York ’s baseline survey of the state ’s infection rate , it tested 7,500 people and found 14.9 % of the population has Covid-19 antibodies .
Results vary by region , with a 24.7 % rate in New York City and 14.4 % rate on Long Island .
The state is expanding the survey to test police , fire , health - care and transit workers .
Under Cuomo ’s reopening plan , construction and manufacturing will come first .
Businesses must ensure distancing and personal protection equipment and consider temperature checks , Cuomo said .
Going forward , the way to control the virus is to find the person who was infected , then trace and isolate the infection , Cuomo said .
The state needs facilities for people who are positive to quarantine for two weeks if they can not self - isolate at home , he said .
If hospitals in an area reach 70 % capacity , and the rate of transmission exceeds 1 , that is cause for pause , the governor said .
A rate of 1 means that each case causes one new infection .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Blue Angels and Thunderbirds fly over the skies in salute to frontline workers. See the photos. .
2020-04-28 17:45:39 +00:00 .
The Navy and Air Force have commissioned their respective air squadrons — the Blue Angels and the Thunderbirds — to fly over Philadelphia , Trenton , N.J. and New York City as a tribute to healthcare workers and other essential workers in the frontlines of the coronavirus pandemic .
The flyover is part of President Donald Trump ’s Operation America Strong salute , which he announced last Wednesday .
Residents within the flight path can expect to hear jet noise as the 12 high - performance aircraft fly , in precise formation , overhead .
It should be visible from people ’s homes , and the Blue Angels stated that people “ should refrain from traveling to see the flyover . ”
" We are truly excited to take to the skies with our Navy counterparts for a nationwide tribute to the men and women keeping our communities safe , " U.S. Air Force Lt . Col . John Caldwell , Thunderbird 1 and mission commander of the flyover , said in a release .
" We hope to give Americans a touching display of American resolve that honors those serving on the frontline of our fight with COVID-19 . "
In order to reach as many people as possible , some portions of the flyovers will feature only the Blue Angels or the Thunderbirds , while others will include both teams flying in their signature Delta formations simultaneously .
New York and New Jersey are the two states with the most deaths from coronavirus , with 22,668 and 6,044 confirmed respectively as of Tuesday afternoon .
Pennsylvania has 1,906 deaths .
People watch as a formation of the Blue Angels and Thunderbirds flight teams pass in front of the New York City skyline as seen from Weehawken , N.J. , Tuesday , April 28 , 2020 .
More
The Blue Angels and Thunderbirds fly over New York in a salute to health care workers on April 28 , 2020 .
More
The U.S. Navy 's Blue Angels and U.S. Air Force 's Thunderbirds perform a flyover tribute to honor NYC COVID-19 frontline workers .
More
The Blue Angels and Thunderbirds fly over New York in a salute to health care workers on April 28 , 2020 .
The US Navy Blue Angels and Air Force Thunderbirds are conducting multi - city flyovers as part of the ' American Strong ' collaborative salute from the two forces to recognize health care workers , first responders , and other essential personnel during the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic .
More
The USN Blue Angels and the USAF Thunderbirds fly over the East River in New York City .
More
The USN Blue Angels and the USAF Thunderbirds fly over the Statue of Liberty to pay tribute to NYC COVID-19 Frontline Workers at the Brooklyn Navy Yard on April 28 , 2020 in the Brooklyn borough of New York City .
More
The U.S. Navy Blue Angels and the U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds fly over the Kensico Dam in Valhalla April 28 , 2020 .
More
The U.S. Navy Blue Angels and the U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds fly over the Kensico Dam in Valhalla April 28 , 2020 .
More
The US Navy Blue Angels and US Air Force Thunderbirds honor first responders on the front lines of the coronavirus pandemic by flying over Manhattan on April 28 , 2020 in New York City .
More
The US Navy Blue Angels and US Air Force Thunderbirds honor first responders on the front lines of the coronavirus pandemic by flying over Manhattan and the Brookly Bridge on April 28 , 2020 in New York City .
More Follow Joshua Bote and Heather Clark on Twitter : @joshua_bote and @heather_l_clark
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY NETWORK :
Photos : Blue Angels , Thunderbirds fly over PA , NJ , NY for workers

Southwest posts first quarterly loss in nine years, shores up cash to weather pandemic .
2020-04-28 13:59:36 +00:00 .
By Tracy Rucinski
( Reuters ) - Southwest Airlines Co on Tuesday posted a $ 94 million quarterly net loss , its first in nine years , and warned of drastic revenue drops ahead as it sought to raise another $ 2.6 billion to help weather the coronavirus pandemic .
Its shares opened down 1 % at $ 28.82 after it announced a public stock offering of 55 million shares , worth around $ 1.6 billion at Monday ’s closing price of $ 29.11 , and $ 1 billion worth of convertible debt .
The COVID-19 crisis has decimated travel demand , with unprecedented flight cancellations in the second half of March , forcing airlines to preserve and raise cash .
Dallas - based Southwest swung to a net loss of $ 94 million for the quarter ended March 31 , compared to a profit of $ 387 million a year earlier .
Excluding special items , the loss was $ 77 million , or a $ 0.15 loss per share .
Total operating revenue fell 17.8 % to $ 4.2 billion .
It sees operating revenue falling by 90 - 95 % in both April and May , when it does not expect load factors to surpass 10 % .
While the airline has more bookings for June and July - albeit in a drastically reduced flight schedule - it said it can not reasonably estimate any revenue trends beyond May.
" We have no idea what kind of cancellations will come through before those travel dates ; there 's no way to be comfortable with what will happen to those reservations , " Southwest CEO Gary Kelly told Reuters .
The coronavirus outbreak has led to the deaths of more than 207,000 people , including more than 55,000 in the United States , a Reuters tally shows .
Stay - at - home orders remain in place across much of the world and it is an open question as to when people will feel comfortable traveling again and under what safety requirements .
Airlines including Southwest support pre - boarding temperature checks , face masks and social distancing measures on airplanes and in airports .
" We do think there 's a role for the federal government to play here and as an industry we 'll be advocating for that , " Kelly said .
Southwest 's average daily cash burn will slow to between $ 30 million and $ 35 million in the second quarter , due to a series of cost - cutting measures and capital raisings , including government aid , it said .
The airline is receiving about $ 3.3 billion in government payroll support and said it was considering tapping an additional $ 2.8 billion in secured government loans under the stimulus package known as the CARES Act , among other liquidity options .
It had $ 9.3 billion in cash and short - term investments as of April 24 , with leverage of 47 % .
Under the terms of government payroll support , airlines can not lay off employees before Sept. 30 .
If demand remains weak , Southwest has said it may need to reduce its workforce after that date and rethink its fleet .
Southwest , which only operates Boeing 737s and is the world 's largest customer of the grounded 737 MAX , said it has reached an agreement with Boeing Co to take no more than 48 new 737 MAX jets until Dec. 2021 , a fraction of the 123 it had originally scheduled .
It has removed the MAX from its fleet until Oct. 30 as the jet awaits regulatory approval to fly again following two fatal crashes .
Delta Air Lines Inc posted a first - quarter loss last week and American Airlines Group Inc and United Airlines Holdings Inc are due to report on Thursday .
( Reporting by Tracy Rucinski and Sanjana Shivdas ;
editing by Jason Neely and Nick Zieminski )

Tyson Fury will not face Deontay Wilder ‘until October or November’, says Frank Warren .
2020-04-28 13:23:39 +00:00 .
Promoter Frank Warren has ruled out the possibility of Tyson Fury facing Anthony Joshua in an undisputed heavyweight fight later this year .
Fury is contractually obliged to face Wilder in a trilogy fight after his stunning seventh - round knockout victory over the American in February .
Joshua ’s promoter , Eddie Hearn , had mooted the idea of step - aside money being offered to Wilder to enable the British pair to meet for all the heavyweight belts this year .
“ No offers have been made , ” Warren told punching.tv .
“ As far as Tyson ’s concerned no offers whatsoever have been made to Wilder or his team .
“ At the moment , there is a contract in place that has to be honoured . ”
Fury was set to rematch Wilder in Las Vegas in July before the coronavirus outbreak , with the bout now unlikely to take place “ until October or November ” , according to Warren .
“ I hope it does ( happen ) .
For the sake of British sport and British boxing , ” Warren said of a potential clash with Joshua . ”
It ’s something everybody wants to see happen .
I want to see it happen because we ’ve all got opinions on who we think we feel will win .
“ I feel that Tyson has the beating of him as I always felt from day one that Tyson always had the beating of Deontay Wilder – and was proved twice – albeit the first fight he did n’t get the decision – he was cheated .
“ I think if we can get them in the ring the same thing will happen with AJ .
I think Tyson has the beating of him as well . ”

Ducati Restarts Production With Covid-19 Precautions in High Gear .
2020-04-28 12:25:17 +00:00 .
Click here to read the full article .
Ducati has revealed it will be restarting production at its Borgo - Panigale factory following the extended hiatus enforced by the Covid-19 pandemic .
The Italian manufacturer halted the production lines on March 23 , forcing a mass reorganization of production schedules that greatly affected the brand new Streetfighter V4 , Multistrada GT and Panigale V2 product lines .
Research and Development workers , however , are now back at their posts , and April 28 will see assembly workers returning with strict new Covid-19 measures put in force by the company .
More from Robb Report
Social distancing safeguards of six feet will remain , and all employees will be required to wear masks and gloves , with the factory lunch room enforcing a one person per four seat rule to ensure minimum physical contact .
Production will move from an eight - hour shift to two seven - hour shifts to allow for the lowest number of people in the plant at any given time .
As for the remaining Ducati employees , operating remotely is still mandatory , including those in departments such as commercial , marketing , IT , personnel management , finance , purchasing and logistics , as well as designers and project managers .
The regulations come after a joint commission between Ducati and the union representative body , the RSU , that was formed two days after the first Italian individual was diagnosed with Covid-19 on February 23 .
“ We are ready to go , we have worked hard over the past few weeks to minimize any risk , ” said Claudio Domenicali , Ducati ’s CEO .
“ Despite this we will have to be extremely cautious and rigorous .
The virus is still in circulation and we must therefore be careful to combat any possible form of transmission .
This is the reason why all the people present in the factory will wear masks , we must protect the population from the presence of asymptomatic positives who , although in a very small percentage , are present today and will not be identified by the mandatory temperature test . ”
As far as the pandemic ’s economic impact on Ducati , Domenicali states : “ The two - wheel market is highly seasonal , and the stop to production in March and April has already had negative effects on sales .
We have a splendid order book ; the brand - new Streetfighter V4 just launched but production was halted just one month after the start .
Then there are also many orders for the Multistrada 1260 S Grand Tour and for the Panigale V2 .
We also have the empty warehouses of the Multistrada 950 and Ducati Scrambler 1100 PRO . ”
With production slowly ramping back up , Ducati is the first mainstream motorcycle manufacturer to publicly declare they are going back to work , hinting at increased confidence that the worst of the Covid-19 crisis is behind both the company and Italy as a whole .
Best of Robb Report
Sign up for Robb Report 's Newsletter .
For the latest news , follow us on Facebook , Twitter , and Instagram .

Catalonia exploits coronavirus to demand independence .
2020-04-28 09:33:06 +00:00 .
Catalonia is renewing its demands for independence from Spain as the coronavirus crisis threatens to break apart the country 's fragile government .
Quim Torra , the president of Catalonia , has demanded the restart of a negotiation process over Catalonia ’s future as he launched a scathing attack on Spain ’s handling of the country 's outbreak , one of the worst in the world .
" This is the time to restart political dialogue .
We still have political prisoners , and exiles , and we demand our right to self - determination , ” Mr Torra said in reference to nine pro - independence leaders sentenced to prison last year for their part in an unlawful referendum in 2017 .
“ We wanted independence before coronavirus , not because we want to fly our flag , but because we can give our citizens better opportunities and public services , ” Mr Torra told The Telegraph , insisting that , for now , his priority is “ saving lives ” .
Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez 's Left - wing coalition government lacks a stable parliamentary majority and could be fatally weakened by internal divisions over social spending in response to the Covid-19 epidemic .
The chief spokeswoman for Catalonia ’s government , Meritxell Budó , has said that fewer Catalans would have died from coronavirus if the region were run independently .
Mr Torra did not go so far , but accused Spain ’s government of centralising power over the health system under state of emergency legislation , and then moving too slowly as the fatalities from Covid-19 began to spiral towards the current toll of more than 23,000 .
The Catalan president points to his call for a lockdown and decision to close off an area outside Barcelona before Spain moved to shut the country down on March 15 , as well as disputing the decision to lift restrictions on non - essential economic sectors after Easter and Madrid ’s flip - flopping on whether to let children out to play or simply to accompany parents on errands .
“ Where is the scientific advice that made the government decide one thing and then change to another eight hours later ?
When we demanded the economy be shut down completely , we did so based on expert advice and with the unanimous support of doctors in Catalonia . ”
Mr Torra also questioned the Spanish government ’s commitment to transparency on the death count , noting that Catalonia includes data from funerary services and suspected Covid - related fatalities but the health ministry has so far refused to collate this information nationwide .
International path out of lockdown
More
The Catalan leader weighed into a freedom of expression row after it emerged that the Guardia Civil police force was investigating social media messages spreading disinformation could “ create social strain and disaffection with government institutions ” .
“ I demand political responsibility from the Spanish state over a situation where the Guardia Civil is tracking people ’s posts on Twitter and looking for opinions against the government , ” Mr Torra said .
“ We can not allow the slightest slip into authoritarianism . ”

The San Francisco Bay Area shelter-in-place order is being extended through May .
2020-04-28 05:42:16 +00:00 .
Justin Sullivan / Getty Images
The shelter - in - place order in the San Francisco Bay Area is being extended through May.
The regionwide order , which was the first in the US , had already been extended once , from April 7 to May 3 .
Residents have been isolating inside their homes for weeks to help slow the spread of the coronavirus .
But until factors including widespread testing and contact tracing are considered , reopening is unlikely .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
The shelter - in - place order for the San Francisco Bay Area is being extended through May , past its previous deadline of May 3 .
A joint press release issued on Monday by public - health officials across the Bay Area said the modifications to the order — to be officially made later this week — would include " limited easing of specific restrictions for a small number of lower - risk activities . "
An expiration date was n't announced , but the order will be enforced through May , the officials said .
San Francisco Mayor London Breed had said in a Friday news conference that an extension was likely .
" What that means is another few weeks or even a month of asking you all to comply and to remain at home and to continue to follow the social - distancing orders that we put forth , " she said , according to the San Francisco Chronicle .
The region , as well as the rest of the US , continues to fight the spread of the coronavirus , which causes a disease known as COVID-19 .
The regionwide order was the first in the country to be enforced , on March 17 .
The order had already been extended once , to May 3 from April 7 .
Residents are directed to remain inside their homes as much as possible but can leave for essential activities like grocery shopping or going for a walk .
San Francisco now requires people to wear masks while in public , specifically when they 're at essential businesses such as grocery stores or restaurants .
Another Bay Area county , Solano County , north of San Francisco , had already extended its shelter - in - place order through May 17 .
For the most part , Bay Area counties have been following the same recommendations from public - health officials on how to modify the shelter - in - place orders for their locales .
As of Monday , there were 7,720 confirmed COVID-19 cases in the Bay Area .
In San Francisco County , there were 1,424 confirmed cases , with many coming from nursing homes and homeless shelters , including MSC South , San Francisco 's largest shelter .
The shelter experienced an outbreak in early April when 70 people tested positive for the disease .
A reopening plan detailed by Gov. Gavin Newsom said multiple factors — including widespread testing and contact tracing — would need to be considered before restrictions could be relaxed .
Newsom issued a statewide stay - at - home order on March 19 .
San Francisco 's public - health director , Dr. Grant Colfax , said on Friday that while the " curve is flat " in the city , that does n't mean life can return to normal just yet .
That reality is especially stark for people who have been grappling with the economic fallout of the pandemic .
The mayor said on Friday that her office expected the city 's unemployment tally to soon reach 100,000 , or about one in every nine residents , Curbed SF reported .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Oil Extends Drop Below $11 as ETF Selloff Exacerbates Volatility .
2020-04-28 01:55:37 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Crude extended its slide below $ 11 a barrel after the biggest oil exchange - traded fund unexpectedly began selling all its holdings of the most active contract amid rapidly dwindling storage capacity .
Futures fell more than 15 % in New York after losing a quarter of their value on Monday .
The United States Oil Fund LP sold all of its West Texas Intermediate June contracts , significantly widening the spread between July WTI and raising concerns of a repeat of the collapse that sent oil below zero for the first time ever last week .
U.S. producers have started making crude deliveries to the nation ’s emergency stockpile as storage space runs out .
Oil has lost almost 80 % this year as the coronavirus outbreak vaporized demand for everything from gasoline to crude despite global efforts to stem the spread .
The world ’s biggest producers have pledged to slash daily output from the start of next month to try and balance the market , but the collapse in consumption has led to a swelling glut that ’s testing storage limits worldwide .
South Korea , which holds the fourth - biggest commercial storage capacity in Asia , was said to have run out of onshore space , while Singapore ’s coastline has become even more congested with oil - laden tankers .
In order to avoid the U.S. hub of Cushing from becoming more than 90 % full in May and June , total production shut - ins would have to equate to 1 million barrels a day this month , according to JPMorgan Chase Co.
“ The startling June sell - off is in part due to the reality of storage facilities filling up rapidly , ” said Stephen Innes , chief global market strategist at AxiCorp Ltd.
Strategic buying by the U.S. to fill its emergency reserves wo n’t provide a huge boost for prices , but it will support sentiment and the physical market , he said .
West Texas Intermediate for June delivery dropped $ 1.98 to $ 10.80 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange as of 9:42 a.m.
Singapore time .
The contract fell $ 4.16 on Monday to close at $ 12.78 .
Brent for June settlement slipped 78 cents to $ 19.21 after declining 6.8 % on Monday .
See also :
Hin Leong Bust the Latest to Mar Singapore ’s Oil Trading Haven
The U.S. Oil Fund is moving its money to contracts spread between July 2020 and June 2021 due to new limits imposed upon it by regulators and its broker , according to a filing .
The ETF has changed its investment policy five times in the last two weeks .
Russia offered a glimmer of hope that a more balanced market is n’t far away .
The world ’s largest energy producer will next month ship the smallest amount of Urals crude from its three main western ports in at least a decade .
Meanwhile , Saudi Arabia is said to have made an early start on drastic output cuts that were n’t meant to kick in until May 1 .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

New York cautious as more US states ease virus lockdowns .
2020-04-27 20:43:58 +00:00 .
New York ( AFP ) -
More US states began lifting coronavirus lockdown orders on Monday but New York -- America 's economic engine and coronavirus epicenter -- is in no hurry , with hospitalization rates still high .
As Colorado , Minnesota , Mississippi and Tennessee became among the latest states to loosen restrictions , New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said he is preparing to lengthen confinement measures for badly - hit areas .
" May 15 is when the pause regulations expire statewide .
I will extend them in many parts of the state , " he told reporters .
New York is America 's worst - hit state , with more than 17,300 COVID-19 deaths out of almost 292,000 confirmed infections .
Cuomo plans to allow manufacturing and construction to restart in some of the state 's least - affected areas after May 15 as part of a phased reopening .
But for now that seems about it .
New York has been shut down since mid - March .
" We have to be smart because if you are not smart , you will see that infection rate go right back to where it was .
( We ) will be right back to where we were 58 days ago and nobody wants that , " he said .
Cuomo said cases were not falling as quickly as he would like , with more than 1,000 new hospitalizations and 337 deaths from the disease in the past 24 hours .
The most affected part of the state , New York City , is likely to be one of the last areas of the country to reopen .
A poll out Monday showed residents overwhelmingly backed the shutdown .
Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that at least 40 miles of streets will close to traffic to give the city 's 8.6 million residents more space to exercise outdoors , in a further sign that the end is far from in sight .
Also Monday , New York 's elections board canceled the Democratic Party primary on June 23 , citing the risk of spreading coronavirus , a move heavily criticized by leftist Bernie Sanders .
- Georgia 's restaurants reopen -
As New Jersey , the second - worst affected state with 6,000 deaths , California and the Washington DC region stay committed to continuing confinement measures for now , more than half a dozen states have started a partial reopening of their economies .
Restaurants in Georgia reopened open their doors Monday after beaches reopened over the weekend , despite criticism from health experts who say social distancing is still needed to stop the spread .
" We need human touch , human contact , " 64 - year - old Kim Kaseta told AFP , delighted to be at her local breakfast spot in Atlanta , where waiters and cooks wore masks .
Tennessee also permitted restaurants to reopen Monday .
Alaska , Oklahoma , Minnesota , Mississippi , Colorado and South Carolina have started to allow certain activities as well .
The moves come despite Harvard researchers and the health news site Stat warning that the majority of US states do n't yet have sufficient resting capacity to consider relaxing the stay - at - home orders after May 1 .
Thirty - one states and the District of Columbia are well behind , they said , with New York needing to perform between 130,000 to 155,000 tests every day , compared to the average of 20,000 per day around mid April .
Cuomo also said an antibody test of 7,500 people found that a a quarter of New York City residents may have already survived the virus , although that does n't mean they are immune to catching it again

Hawaii won't reopen anytime soon. Coronavirus stay-at-home order extended through May .
2020-04-27 18:39:40 +00:00 .
Hawaii doubled down on its stay - at home order Saturday .
With Georgia and a few states starting to reopen businesses , Hawaii ’s Gov. David Ige went in the opposite direction .
He extended the state ’s stay - at - home order until May 31 , keeping beaches closed to sunbathers and swimmers and other businesses shut .
The order closed state parks and monuments as well as historical sites and recreation areas to stop the spread of coronavirus .
Ige ’s order extended mandatory quarantine rules too .
Anyone flying to the islands will have to quarantine at home or at their hotel for 14 days .
As of Sunday , Hawaii reported 606 cases and 14 deaths , according to its health department ’s website .
Visitors must quarantine in their hotel rooms or other lodging .
“ You can only leave your designated quarantine location for medical emergencies or to seek medical care , ” the original March 25 order said .
“ With the majority of Hawaii ’s COVID-19 cases linked to travel , it is critical that we further mitigate the spread of the virus by both residents and visitors who are coming from out - of - state , ” Ige said in his order .
The Hawaii Tourism Authority also has told travelers to stay away too .
“ While we ’ve always welcomed people to Hawaii with open arms , health and safety is our first priority , ” a statement posted on Facebook said .
“ So it ’s with a heavy heart that we ’re advising travelers not to visit the Hawaiian Islands at this time .
[ The governor ] has asked that all trips be postponed for 30 days , in light of the COVID-19 pandemic . ”
Though beach parks are closed , some are still accessing the ocean .
"
City officials confirmed that the beach parks are closed , but they can not restrict people from going into the water , " Hawaii News Now reported after the March order .
" People going for a swim are technically allowed to walk through the park to reach the water ’s edge , but the city is hoping everyone will heed community leaders ’ orders to stay home . "
Amid the spread of the coronavirus to all 50 states , Hawaii and Alaska had earlier set quarantine rules for locals and arriving passengers .
As of April 24 , Alaska started to reopen dine - in restaurants , hair salons and barbershops and gyms while keeping social - distancing rules in place .

Starting Slow for a Busy Week .
2020-04-27 15:07:55 +00:00 .
Monday , April 27 , 2020 We start off slowly in our new trading week , especially considering we will be getting Q1 earnings results from no fewer than 150 companies listed on the SP 500 , as well as 1/3 of the Dow Jones .
We are currently in the heart of earnings season , though the marquee names do n’t begin reporting until tomorrow .
When we do see these big names report — including Apple AAPL , Amazon AMZN , Boeing BA , Alphabet GOOGL and Tesla TSLA — we know that the past quarter figures are less important than what June quarter projections are .
Many companies that have already reported have erased any future guidance , if not for the next quarter than for full - year 2020 .
We will take incoming data on a company - by - company basis , and by the end of the week will have a strong view on earnings season overall .
A few things to look for include : Apple delaying the production of a new iPhone by roughly a month , Amazon and Alphabet ( Google ) to potentially have outperformed during this “ shelter in place ” period to combat the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus , and whether Microsoft ’s MSFT Xbox Live was as strong as some analysts forecast .
In short , we have plenty of scenarios to look forward to as the week progresses .
We also do n’t see much in the way of economic data for the week .
We do get Q2 GDP , jobless claims and manufacturing reads from PMI and ISM later in the week , but we will need to wait a week for new Employment Situation data and a fresh Unemployment Rate .
Then again , as depressing as those reads no doubt will be , nobody is clamoring for them to come out right now .
So what we see this morning is more hopefulness buoying market futures — pre - market indexes are in the green across the board : the Dow is up 220 points , the Nasdaq +100 and the SP 500 +20 .
No news is good news , as they say .
And as long as coronavirus statistics continue to display a plateauing or downward slope in new cases and/or fatalities , we can expect these would contribute to the current sentiment , as well .
Mark Vickery
Senior Editor Questions or comments about this article and/or its author ?
Click here Free Book : Finding # 1 Stocks
In this 300 - page hardcover , Zacks ' Executive VP Kevin Matras reveals almost every stock - picking secret he ’s learned from the system that since 1988 has more than doubled the average yearly gain of the SP 500 .
Learn more now Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research ?
Today , you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days .
Click to get this free report Microsoft Corporation ( MSFT ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report The Boeing Company ( BA ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report Amazon.com , Inc. ( AMZN ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report Apple Inc. ( AAPL ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report Tesla , Inc. ( TSLA ) :
Free Stock Analysis Report Invesco QQQ ( QQQ ): ETF Research Reports Alphabet Inc. ( GOOGL ) : Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here .
Zacks Investment Research Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research ?
Today , you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days .
Click to get this free report

Extra Relief Aid for Small Business Is Coming With Same Concerns .
2020-04-27 14:46:07 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
A government relief loan program for U.S. small businesses is restarting Monday with an expected flood of applications , amid concerns about how quickly the additional funding for the program will last and whether mom - and - pop shops struggling to survive will get the aid they need .
The U.S. Small Business Administration resumes accepting applications for its Paycheck Protection Program at 10:30 a.m.
New York Time with an additional $ 320 billion in funding that Congress approved last week after the initial $ 349 billion for the initiative ran out April 16 after just 13 days .
The program allows for loans of as much as $ 10 million per borrower and is meant to help small businesses affected by the coronavirus pandemic keep workers on their payrolls .
The loans become grants if companies use them for payroll and approved expenses for two months .
The initial program , which launched April 3 , was marred by delays and glitches after guidance on how to process loans was n’t released until the night before , and many big banks were n’t ready to participate or held back until rules because clearer .
Advocates complained that many small mom - and - pop shops were shut out as outrage built over larger , public companies and big chains getting funded .
Even before the first new application is processed Monday , advocates are concerned the additional funding could also be exhausted in a matter of days , wo n’t be enough to meet demand , and might not reach the entities that need it the most .
The SBA and U.S. Treasury Department have sought to avoid pitfalls from the first round .
They issued new guidance last week reaffirming that companies must certify they were affected by the pandemic and telling large firms with access to other capital they should n’t apply -- and that firms can return loans by May 7 without penalty .
Hedge funds and private - equity firms were told they were ineligible .
Companies including Shake Shack Inc. and the operator of Ruth ’s Chris steak houses are returning their loans , adding millions of dollars back to the program .
Congress also set aside $ 60 billion for small financial institutions with $ 50 billion or less in assets to ensure better access for smaller firms .
Still , large banks including Wells Fargo Co. and Bank of America Corp. have been preparing to submit a barrage of hundreds of thousands of loan applications that were n’t process from the first round or have accepted since then .
SBA ’s E - Tran was overwhelmed with the volume in the first round and was inaccessible at times , delaying the processing of some loans .
To ensure access for all of the more than 5,000 lenders approved to participate in the program , the SBA announced on Sunday it ’s capping loans from each bank at $ 60 billion and also allowing them to submit applications in batches of at least 15,000 .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Tyson Foods warns of meat shortages: 'The food supply is breaking' .
2020-04-27 14:11:09 +00:00 .
One of the nation 's top meat companies has issued a warning that there could be a shortage at grocery stores nationwide due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic .
In a full page ad that appeared in Sunday 's edition of The New York Times , the chairman of the board of Tyson Foods , John H. Tyson , wrote that " the food supply chain is breaking . "
The company 's ominous message came after it temporarily closed a pork processing plant in Waterloo , Iowa , on April 22 .
More than 180 coronavirus infections had been linked to the plant , and hundreds of employees were n't going to work out of fear of getting sick , NBC News reported .
The plant accounted for almost 4 % of U.S. pork processing capacity , according to the National Pork Board .
" There will be limited supply of our products available in grocery stores until we are able to reopen our facilities that are currently closed , " Tyson wrote in the ad .
Download the TODAY app for the latest coverage on the coronavirus outbreak .
On Monday , a worker from the Iowa Tyson plant ( whose identity was concealed ) spoke with NBC 's Kerry Sanders on TODAY about the conditions that led to the shutdown .
" Ambulances start coming to our plant .
People start being carried out of there , and so we were always asking our supervisors basically what is it that 's going on here , " the employee said .
" They did n't have enough material , masks and things like that , to provide to us , so they would start giving us different types of rags and stuff that they had ... washed and cleaned . "
Tyson said in a statement to NBC News that it has been " working diligently to protect our team members .
" It added that early on it allowed workers to bring their own masks and supplied some of its own until it could " secure surgical - style coverings . "
The company now requires all employees to wear masks and said it was not " aware of any ambulance visits to the plant for COVID-19 - related reasons . "
NBC News has not been able to independently confirm ambulances being present at the Waterloo plant .
Tyson 's Iowa plant closure comes as multiple beef , poultry and pork plants across the country are also being shut down due to coronavirus spreading among workers , many of whom work in tightly packed assembly lines .
Smithfield Farms , one of the nation 's largest pork producers , announced on April 12 that it was closing one of its meat processing plants in South Dakota for at least two weeks after at least 300 employees tested positive for the coronavirus .
Food JBS USA and Cargill Inc. also closed plants after workers tested positive for the coronavirus .
The CEO of the National Cattlemen 's Beef Association , Colin Woodall , warned that the situation could worsen depending on certain factors .
" If we start to see panic buying much like we did the first two weeks of this pandemic , then yes , we are going to have an issue on our hands , " Woodall told Sanders .
Food experts have noted that the shortages customers may be seeing in grocery stores are not about decreased supply nationwide .
Many farms , for example , have excess supply because their traditional customers , like restaurants and schools , have closed .
However , when large processing plants are forced to slow or halt production , farmers are unable to send animals to slaughter at these facilities , so they must find other vendors who can meet their demands .

Independent review into Tas virus outbreak .
2020-04-27 10:31:20 +00:00 .
Tasmania wo n't follow the lead of other states in easing social restrictions as it pledges an independent review into the northwest outbreak .
Ten of the state 's 11 coronavirus deaths have been in the northwest , where a cluster of cases at Burnie 's two hospitals forced their closure earlier this month .
Premier Peter Gutwein has announced there will be an independent probe into the outbreak " when the time is right " .
Queensland and Western Australia will begin easing some virus restrictions this week but Mr Gutwein says he will take a cautious approach .
" We have an older and more vulnerable population in Tasmania , " he said on Monday .
" Where some states might lift restrictions early , I do n't believe we will be doing that .
" I do n't intend to make knee - jerk reaction and take us to a position where the restrictions come off too quickly and then leaves us exposed . "
A ban on non - essential retail in the northwest was recently extended until Sunday and schools in the region will open a week late for term two .
Schools elsewhere in the state will reopen on Tuesday .
Of Tasmania 's 214 cases , 142 have been in the northwest .
Two new cases , both close contacts of previous ones , were confirmed on Monday night .
There are 63 active cases in the northwest compared with just seven across the rest of the state .
Mr Gutwein said the independent investigation would begin " at an appropriate time " .
The state government is conducting its own inquiry into the outbreak and is likely to release its report this week .
Police have dismissed claims an " illegal dinner party " of northwest healthcare workers contributed to cluster after the suggestion was made by Australia 's chief medical officer earlier this month .
Professor Brendan Murphy walked back the comments on the same day he made them to a New Zealand parliamentary committee but not before police were asked to investigate .
Health officials have previously linked the outbreak to infected Ruby Princess cruise ship passengers returning to the state .
Tasmania 's first three virus deaths , including two in the northwest , had been passengers aboard the ill - fated cruise ship .
Health officials , meanwhile , will retest all residents at the Melaleuca Home for the Aged in East Devonport after an elderly resident recently died in hospital from the virus .
Three people have died from the virus in the region in recent days , the latest a man aged in his 90s at the Mersey Community Hospital in Latrobe on Sunday .

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson returns to work after beating coronavirus .
2020-04-27 10:04:55 +00:00 .
LONDON – British Prime Minister Boris Johnson returned to work Monday , appearing in public for the first time in three weeks since recovering from a bout of coronavirus that landed him in intensive care .
Standing outside his central London office and residence at
No . 10 Downing Street , Britain 's leader apologized for being " away from my desk for much longer than I would 've liked " and said the country was on the brink of victory in the first phase of its fight with COVID-19 even if it was too early to end Britain 's five - week national lockdown .
Coronavirus live updates : U.S. reaches ' plateau , ' nears 1 million cases ; GOP governor calls out Trump ; last patient leaves hospital in Wuhan
" If we can show the same spirit of unity and determination as we have all shown in the past six weeks , then I have absolutely no doubt that we will beat it , together we will come through it all the faster and the United Kingdom will emerge stronger than ever before , " Johnson said , describing coronavirus as an " unexpected and invisible mugger we have begun to wrestle to the floor .
Johnson thanked Britons for their " sheer grit and guts " and said the nation needs to keep going .
He called for " optimism and energy . "
He said Britain was at a moment of maximum risk in its outbreak and he urged people not to lose patience with the lockdown .
" It is still true that this is the biggest single challenge this country has faced since the war and I in no way minimize the continuing problems we face
and yet it is also true that we are making progress , " Johnson said .
Johnson , 55 , is the first major world leader known to have contracted coronavirus – and now also to have beaten it .
He was diagnosed with COVID-19 on March 26 and hospitalized 10 days later .
He spent several days in an intensive care unit .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Boris Johnson returns to work after intensive care

Oil falls, June WTI leads losses on storage fears .
2020-04-27 05:59:54 +00:00 .
By Florence Tan SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) -
Oil prices fell on Monday on signs that worldwide oil storage is filling rapidly , raising concerns that production cuts will not be fast enough to fully offset the collapse in demand from the coronavirus pandemic .
U.S. oil futures led losses on fears that storage at Cushing , Oklahoma , could reach full capacity soon .
U.S. crude inventories rose to 518.6 million barrels in the week to April 17 , near an all - time record of 535 million barrels set in 2017 .
U.S. West Texas Intermediate CLc1 June futures fell $ 1.49 , or 8.8 % , to $ 15.45 a barrel by 0452 GMT , while Brent crude LCOc1 was down 44 cents , or 2.1 % , at $ 21.00 a barrel .
Oil futures marked their third straight week of losses last week - and have fallen for eight of the past nine - with Brent ending down 24 % and WTI off around 7 % .
Graphic - Cushing crude stockpiles surge :
https://fingfx.thomsonreuters.com/gfx/ce/rlgvdybepoj/cushing%20storage.PNG
Retail investors were caught off guard last week when the May WTI contract plunged into negative territory for the first time ever two days before expiry as financial traders scrambled to avoid having to take delivery of oil .
The June WTI contract 's price fall may have been triggered by investors moving to later months to avoid a similar fate , said Tony Nunan , a senior risk manager at Mitsubishi Corp in Tokyo .
" Anybody who has had length who does n't have storage contracts has either closed their positions ( in June ) or rolled far forward ... because it 's suicide to carry a position into the close after seeing what happened last month , " he said .
Cushing , the delivery point for WTI , was 70 % full as of mid - April , although traders said all available space was already leased .
Producers may not be slashing output quickly or deeply enough to buoy prices , especially when global economic output is expected to contract by 2 % this year , worse than the financial crisis , while demand has collapsed 30 % due to the pandemic .
Amid the rush to cut output , rig counts in the United States are down to the lowest since July 2016 , while the total number of oil and gas rigs in Canada has fallen to the lowest since at least 2000 , according to Baker Hughes data .
" The Permian Basin and New Mexico accounted for 62 % of the shutdowns ; an ominous sign considering this region has been one of the more prosperous in the U.S. , " ANZ analysts said .
Kuwait and Azerbaijan are coordinating cuts , while Russia is set to reduce its western seaborne exports by half in May.
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies including Russia , a group known as OPEC+ , pledged earlier this month to cut output by an unprecedented 9.7 million barrels per day in May and June .
( Reporting by Florence Tan in Singapore and David Gaffen in New York ;
Editing by Richard Pullin )

Dad, 32, writes heart-wrenching note to wife, kids before dying of coronavirus .
2020-04-26 17:43:27 +00:00 .
A Connecticut father who was battling the coronavirus wrote a letter to his wife and children telling them how much he loved them and how lucky he was to have them in his life .
Jonathan Coelho , 32 , wrote the note the day before doctors at a hospital in Danbury intubated him and weeks before his April 22 death from COVID-19 ,
the disease caused by the virus .
His wife , Katie Coelho , stumbled upon the letter when she opened up her husband 's phone shortly after he died .
" I love you guys with all my heart and you ’ve given me the best life I could have ever asked for , " Jonathan wrote to his family , according to a Facebook post Katie shared .
Image : Jonathan Coelho holds his son Braedyn and daughter Penelope .
( Courtesy of Caitlin Pereira )
More " I am so lucky it makes me so proud to be your husband and the father to Braedyn and Penny .
Katie you are the most beautiful caring nurturing person I ’ve ever met .....
you are truly one of a kind ..... make sure you live life with happiness and that same passion that made me fall in love with you .
Seeing you be the best mom to the kids is the greatest thing I ’ve ever experienced . "
Jonathan then addressed his children , son Braedyn , 2 , and daughter Penelope , 10 months .
" Let Braedyn now he ’s my best bud and I ’m proud to be his father and for all the amazing things he ’s done and continues to do , " the letter read .
"
Let Penelope know she ’s a princess and can have whatever she wants in life .
I ’m so lucky . "
Jonathan , a state employee for over 10 years , began experiencing breathing issues on March 26 , Katie wrote in a Facebook post .
She said that in the week prior to his feeling ill the family had isolated at home because Braedyn , who born with several medical complexities including cerebral palsy , was considered high - risk .
" We took the proper precautions , proper handwashing , social distancing etc .
But it still infected my family , " she wrote .
In addition to trouble breathing , she said Jonathan had terrible headaches that would not go away , was lethargic , had stomach pain and lost his sense of taste and smell .
Katie said just walking a short distance to the bathroom made Jonathan cough and struggle to catch his breath .
" It then worsened that he would be laying in bed and he felt as if something was constricting his throat , " she wrote .
Jonathan was then admitted to the hospital .
In several Facebook posts , Katie gave updates on her husband 's condition .
On March 31 , she wrote that he had been intubated and later placed on a ventilator and sedated .
On April 12 , she wrote that he had kidney failure and needed dialysis .
Jonathan 's condition then started to improve slightly . "
He ’s responding slowly to dialysis but his kidneys are not starting to work again , " Katie wrote in an April 18 post .
" I believe in my heart Jonathan is going to come home .
Our story is not over , but I ’m tired of this roller coaster life we ’ve been living . "
Jut four days later , he died after going into cardiac arrest .
" He had been doing significantly better the last few days and we were given a very optimistic prognosis , " Katie wrote the day of his death . "
The nurse told me she has no idea what happened and why . "
An obituary for Jonathan said he always greeted everyone with a smile and was an avid fan of the New England Patriots .
On Sundays , he loved watching the games in matching jerseys with his children .
Katie said she does n't know what life will look like without Jonathan .
" The pain we are feeling is indescribable , our everything was stolen from us .
My heart is not even broken it ’s shattered , " she wrote on Facebook .

Italy's Conte vows to reopen schools in September .
2020-04-26 17:03:32 +00:00 .
Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte vowed Sunday to reopen schools by September and allow many businesses to resume in a week 's time as the country emerges from a near - total shutdown .
Conte said he would spell out the full details of how Italy could ease its way out of the world 's longest active coronavirus lockdown in a televised address on Sunday night .
He has reportedly been presented with a cautious proposal that involves a gradual lifting of restrictions over the course of May.
Italy 's official death toll of 26,664 is Europe 's highest and only second globally to the United States .
But the number of cases has been ebbing and Italy believes its contagion rate -- reported at between 0.2 and 0.7 -- is low enough below the key threshold of 1.0 to try and get back to work .
Its 260 new deaths reported on Sunday were the lowest single - day toll since March 14 .
" We can not continue beyond this lockdown -- we risk damaging the country 's socioeconomic fabric too much , " Conte told La Repubblica .
- ' Very high risk ' -
Italy gradually closed everything over the first half March as it became increasingly clear that an initial crop of cases in northern areas around Milan was spreading .
Scientists now believe that Italy 's infections probably began in January -- if not earlier -- and that the virus was running rampant by the time the first official COVID-19 death was recorded on February 21 .
But Italy 's health care system held the line and Conte now appears to feel safe enough to focus on mending an economy that his team expects to shrink by eight percent this year .
Conte said his government would " allow a large number of companies " to restart on May 4 .
Italy 's schools were closed before most other businesses and will now be among the last aspects of daily life allowed to resume .
He said the return to school was filled with peril because many teachers were older and at greater risk of catching the virus .
" Schools are at the centre of our attention and will reopen in September , " the premier said .
Conte explained that resuming tuition before then involved " a very high risk of contagion " .
- ' Greater freedom ' -
Many Italians are most concerned about when they will finally be able to walk in parks and jog without being stopped and fined by the police .
Italy 's stay - at - home orders were announced nationally on March 9 and require everyone to stay within about a block of their front door .
Many have turned their roofs into improvised gyms and even tennis courts in a collective effort to avoid going stir crazy .
" We are not yet in a position to restore full freedom of movement , but we are studying a relaxation of the current , strict regime , " Conte said .
" We will make sure to allow greater freedom of movement while maintaining our guarantee to prevent and contain contagion . "
Media reports say the government might allow people to move freely within cities but limit their travel between the country 's 20 regions .
Conte was also reportedly considering the option of outfitting airports and train stations with thermal scanners that can flag people who are running fevers .
But Conte cautioned against expecting bars and restaurants to open their doors in May -- or tourists returning this summer .
" We will be reviewing our social distancing rules , " said Conte .
" But this does not mean that we will be abandoning them . "
Some Italians have turned their roofs into improvised gyms and even tennis courts in an effort to avoid going stir crazy
Italy 's stay - at - home orders were announced nationally on March 9 and require everyone to stay within about a block of their front door

These are the 6 new possible symptoms of the coronavirus the CDC has added to its list .
2020-04-26 16:02:38 +00:00 .
Chills , repeated shaking with chills , muscle pain , headache , sore throat and a new loss of taste or smell .
Those are the six new symptoms the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is cautioning could be signs of the coronavirus .
The additions come as health experts ' understanding of the deadly disease continues to evolve and confound .
The CDC previously listed fever , cough and shortness of breath as symptoms .
Shortness of breath has also been tweaked to " shortness of breath or difficulty breathing " by the CDC .
Coronavirus patients can experience a diversity of issues – from mild symptoms to severe illness .
These symptoms generally appear 2 - 14 days after exposure to the virus .
Patients may be most infectious in the days before they began showing symptoms , studies have shown .
What we know about COVID-19 : What we know about coronavirus keeps changing .
Here 's all the things you may have missed .
The expanded CDC list is significant : Most testing sites still require a patient to have a COVID-19 symptom before the individual can be tested .
The CDC recommends seeking " medical attention immediately " for trouble breathing , persistent pain or pressure on chest , bluish lips or face or new " confusion or inability to arouse . "
As COVID-19 has tightened its grip on the world in the past three months , medical comprehension of the virus has advanced .
The World Health Organization and CDC first urged the public to just be on the lookout for fever , dry cough and breathing difficulties .
Then came strange reports of people losing their sense of taste and smell .
And there were sporadic cases of gastrointestinal issues , such as diarrhea .
Health care workers screen patients who will be tested for COVID-19 at the FoundCare drive - thru testing station in Palm Springs , Florida , on March 19 , 2020 .
More
Another more recent phenomenon : purple or blue lesions on a patient ’s feet and toes , most commonly appearing in children and young adults , dubbed “ COVID toes . ”
While experts ca n’t pinpoint the condition , some have hypothesized that it could be excess inflammation , a clotting of blood vessels or a thrombotic disorder known as purpura fulminans .
Latest news : Coronavirus live updates : Last patient leaves hospital in Wuhan ; US cases near 1 million
Some doctors are also reporting that the virus may be triggering sudden strokes in adults in their 30s and 40s , which could be a result of blood clotting issues .
" The virus seems to be causing increased clotting in the large arteries , leading to severe stroke , " Dr. Thomas Oxley told CNN .
" Our report shows a seven - fold increase in incidence of sudden stroke in young patients during the past two weeks .
Most of these patients have no past medical history and were at home with either mild symptoms ( or in two cases , no symptoms ) of COVID , " said Oxley , a neurosurgeon at Mount Sinai Health System in New York .
Contributing : Adrianna Rodriguez
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus symptoms : CDC adds six new symptoms for COVID-19

Fact check: Conspiracy theorists claim Nancy Pelosi visited Wuhan in November. She did not .
2020-04-25 20:21:47 +00:00 .
The claim : House Speaker Nancy Pelosi visited Wuhan , China , in November
A since - deleted tweet on a relatively obscure conspiracy - theory - promoting account that was posted April 19 on a conspiracy - promoting Facebook account claimed U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi , a Democrat , visited Wuhan , China , in November .
That would put her there around the time researchers say the virus likely originated .
Both accounts appear to follow QAnon , which is , in part , is a right - wing conspiracy that involves allegations of a Democratic cabal of pedophiles trying to control the country , and that President Donald Trump is trying to stop it .
The tweet accused Pelosi of being “ traitorous , ” describes her with an expletive and accuses her of being involved in the virus ’ release .
“ THE ENEMY FROM WITHIN ! ”
the tweet continues , before ending in a series of hashtags , including “ # StayAtHome ” and “ # ThesePeopleAreStupid . ”
It includes a photo of Pelosi shaking hands with a Chinese official , with Chinese characters in the lower left corner like a TV station identifier .
The screenshot of the tweet that was posted to Facebook has been shared more than 1,200 times , and copies the language used in the tweet .
Because the tweet was deleted , it ’s unclear how far it spread on that platform .
Was Pelosi in China at all ?
The photo attached to the tweet and included in the Facebook post shows Pelosi visiting with Chinese officials in China in November 2015 .
The photo was posted on a Chinese embassy webpage and highlights Pelosi meeting with then - leader of China ’s equivalent to a legislative branch , Zhang Dejiang .
It is timestamped in November 2015 , which coincides with independent news reports of then - House Minority Leader Pelosi taking a delegation to meet with Chinese leaders .
The visit is also detailed on the website of the speaker of the U.S. House .
Zhang retired from his post as chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People ’s Congress in March 2018 .
The Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives , which logs foreign travel reports from members of Congress , has no records of Pelosi visiting China on or around November 2019 .
Despite tweets busting the conspiracy in the replies , and the original tweet being deleted , a screenshot found its way to a Facebook account with about 18,000 followers that also traffics in QAnon conspiracy theories .
The people behind the Twitter account and the Facebook account did not respond to requests for comment .
Pelosi ’s office also did not respond to a request for comment .
Our ruling : False
The claim that House Speaker Nancy Peloisi visit China in November is FALSE .
The photo used in the claim features a retired politician and ties back to a known visit Pelosi made to China four years prior .
There are no congressional records , media reports or other evidence supporting the claim that the House speaker visited China any time close to when the novel coronavirus appeared in that country .
Our fact - check sources : Nick Coltrain is a politics and data reporter for the Register .
Reach him at ncoltrain@registermedia.com or at 515 - 284 - 8361 .
Thank you for supporting our journalism .
You can subscribe to our print edition , ad - free app or electronic newspaper replica here .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Fact check : Did Nancy Pelosi did visit Wuhan , China , in November ?

Boeing scraps $4.2bln deal to buy Embraer commercial division .
2020-04-25 19:04:30 +00:00 .
Boeing announced Saturday it was pulling out of a $ 4.2 billion deal to acquire the commercial plane division of its Brazilian rival Embraer , the latest in a string of setbacks for the troubled US aviation giant .
The companies had planned to form a joint venture in which Boeing would take an 80 percent stake in that division .
The deal had been due to be finalized no later than Friday .
But Boeing said Saturday it was exercising its right to pull out of a preliminary deal reached in July 2018 .
It said in a statement , " Embraer did not satisfy the necessary conditions . "
" Boeing has worked diligently over more than two years to finalize its transaction with Embraer , " said Marc Allen , the Boeing executive who led the joint venture plan .
He said that over the past several months the companies held extensive talks on what he termed unsatisfied conditions in the initial accord .
" We all aimed to resolve those by the initial termination date , but it did n't happen , " Allen said , without explaining what the unresolved issues were .
The companies could have kept talking but decided not to .
Embraer reacted angrily , accusing Boeing of terminating the deal wrongfully .
" We believe Boeing has engaged in a systematic pattern of delay and repeated violations of the ( deal ) , because of its unwillingness to complete the transaction in light of its own financial condition and 737 MAX and other business and reputational problems , " said Embraer in a statement .
The company said it plans to sue for damages .
Bloomberg reported Boeing might have to pay up to $ 100 million for pulling out of the deal .
Boeing is going through exceptionally hard times , between the grounding of its 737 MAX planes for more than a year after two crashes left 346 people dead and the coronavirus pandemic that has severely reduced air travel around the world .
The deal was meant to be a counterweight to industry leader Airbus 's buyout of the commercial aviation business of Canadian planemaker Bombardier .
- Regulatory hurdles -
The deal had cleared all regulatory hurdles but was awaiting a green light from the European Commission .
The two companies will continue with a deal signed in 2012 to jointly market and support Embraer 's C-390 military transport plane , Boeing said .
Embraer is the world 's third biggest planemaker after Airbus and Boeing .
EU regulators launched a probe of the proposed tie - up over fears Boeing would effectively absorb Embraer and make an already highly concentrated industry even less competitive .
Although Boeing did not state the reasons behind its announcement Saturday , it comes at a particularly hard time for the aircraft manufacturer .
Air travel has been decimated by the pandemic , and airlines are canceling or postponing orders for planes .
Boeing has also had to suspend work at its US plants as part of social distancing measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus .
It started reopening them gradually this week .
And it is not clear when the 737 MAX planes will get the green light to start flying again .
Boeing stock is down 61 percent for the year .
The company recently asked the federal government for $ 60 billion in aid for itself and its 17,000 US subcontractors .
Embraer is also struggling .
In late March it reported big losses in the final quarter of 2019 .
Since January its share value has dropped nearly 60 percent on the Sao Paulo exchange .
This combination of file pictures created on December 21 , 2017 shows the Boeing logo on the fuselage of a Boeing 787 - 10 Dreamliner at Le Bourget Airport on June 18 , 2017 , and the logo of Brazil 's Embraer at Le Bourget Airport , on June 23 , 2013

Malaysia Sees 2.4 Billion Ringgit a Day of Losses From Lockdown .
2020-04-25 17:17:51 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Malaysia estimates 2.4 billion ringgit ( $ 550 million ) of losses each day from businesses remaining shut due to movement restrictions imposed to contain the coronavirus pandemic .
The government has since unveiled 260 billion ringgit of stimulus packages with a focus on preventing job losses and ensuring small companies can continue to be viable , Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said in a televised interview broadcast on state news channels .
Meanwhile , the country can use this chance to quicken digital economic development , he added .
“ Because of the MCO , the impact can be said to be very big on people ’s lives and on the economy , ” he said , referring to the restrictions called Movement Control Order .
Malaysia extended nationwide limits on people ’s activities until May 12 while easing restrictions slightly to allow some travel during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
The lockdown was put in place on March 18 after the number of coronavirus cases in the country surged .
Infection growth has since slowed , with the health ministry reporting fewer than 90 new cases in each of the last eight days .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Coronavirus: Free school meals scheme branded 'disaster' as 'parents struggle to get vouchers' .
2020-04-25 14:54:10 +00:00 .
Parents are being left in limbo over how to feed their children because the government 's free meals voucher scheme has been a " disaster " , senior teachers have claimed .
The Department for Education ( DfE ) is currently providing vouchers during the coronavirus pandemic - worth £ 15 per child per week - for youngsters who would normally be eligible for free meals .
The DfE initially promised schools that parents would receive codes to obtain vouchers online on the same day as schools applied for them , according to documents seen by Sky News .
But teaching staff were told last week by the DfE that orders had to be placed " four calendar days before the due date " .
One senior teacher told Sky News she had spent the last two days fielding questions from parents who could not redeem vouchers or had not received codes .
Claire Lotriet , an acting co - headteacher from south London , said the scheme - which is run by the DfE and a company called Edenred - had been a " nightmare " .
" When I try to resend codes , I get constant errors , " she said .
" I 've tried over the last few days and nothing ...
I feel helpless .
" The Edenred system can not cope and it is immensely stressful knowing families who need these vouchers are not getting them and yet there 's relatively little I can do to resolve it . "
Chris Dyson , headteacher of Parklands Primary School in Leeds , which serves one of the most deprived areas of the UK , called the government 's free meals voucher system a " disaster " .
He said the online system was " very middle class " and it was not accessible for many families with children at his school .
" I 've only got 20 % of parents on email , " Mr Dyson said .
" So I ca n't even email it out to the most vulnerable .
Then you 've got to download it and you 're hearing horror stories where , still , after three weeks , schools have not got the vouchers .
" These kids are three weeks without any food - the most vulnerable in our society . "
Mr Dyson said he had been working with wholesalers , which normally provide food for his school 's kitchens , and businesses who would normally donate to his school 's Christmas fund , to get food to families in his local area .
" We 're putting food directly into bellies - we 're getting that much now , I can share it amongst all of Leeds , " he added .
: : Listen to the Daily podcast on Apple Podcasts , Google Podcasts , Spotify , Spreaker
The DfE has claimed that all orders for free meal vouchers up to 19 April have been been fulfilled .
But another senior teacher told Sky News he had ordered codes on 15 April for parents and none had so far managed to get a voucher .
" [ The codes ] actually started being delivered yesterday , more than a week after I 'd placed the order , " Michael Tidd , a headteacher from Sussex , said .
" Just logging on to the website takes an hour - and it 's not clear how long it then takes to get the actual voucher delivered . "
Edenred defended the running of its scheme , saying claims that it takes an hour or more to log on to the website to get vouchers were " not accurate . "
" The changes we have made to the scheme are resulting in a scheme which is easier and faster to use , " the company said .
" We will make continue to make improvements in the days ahead . "
In a statement , the DfE said : " We continue to encourage schools to work with their suppliers to arrange food parcels or collections for families eligible for free school meals .
" Where this is not possible , a national scheme was launched for schools to provide supermarket vouchers .
" As of 24 April , over £ 22.5 m worth of vouchers have been converted into supermarket gift cards by schools and families . "

Coronavirus: Isle of Man to ease lockdown restrictions .
2020-04-25 09:38:25 +00:00 .
The Isle of Man has begin easing coronavirus lockdown restrictions after the island ’s government announced some businesses could reopen from Saturday .
Gardeners , painters , decorators , tradespeople and construction workers will be among those allowed to return to work if they follow social distancing rules .
A ban on non - essential journeys has also been lifted , while recycling centres , hardware stores and builders ’ merchants will open again .
People will be allowed to go to beaches and recycling centres once more .
The easing of measures comes despite two more people dying on the island on Friday after testing positive for Covid-19 .
The total death toll there now stands at 18 .
A single nursing home , Abbotswood , has accounted for 13 of the fatalities .
Announcing the new rules , chief minister Howard Quayle said : “ This is not about relaxing our measures .
We are adjusting them to meet a medium - term , sustainable , fairer and healthier balance . ”
But he added : “ Yes , you can kick a football in the park .
Yes , you can walk along the promenade or through a glen .
Yes , you can do your yoga on the beach .
But with people from your household .
We are not yet in a position where we can allow you to do this with your extended family or your friends .
“ I know not being able to meet with friends and family is tough .
And I hope that we will be able to make this change before too long .
But we are not ready to make that change yet . ”
Mr Quayle — who himself tested positive for the virus earlier this month — said the island ’s borders would stay closed and a temporary national speed limit of 40 mph would remain in place for the time being .
But the decision was not made without controversy .
In a video posted online , one of the island ’s top doctors , Martin Rankin , who works for the Manx Emergency Doctors Service , insisted restrictions should remain in place until two weeks after there were no new cases .
“ Please do not relax the lockdown until we have the disease eradicated , ” he said .
“ Only then can we open shops and enjoy the island ’s summer . ”
Read more
Tone - deaf celebrities are causing a social stir over coronavirus UK approves clinical trial of plasma treatment for coronavirus patient
Identical twins with coronavirus die within days of each other
England facing longer lockdown than rest of UK US states that reopen will ‘ pay a bigger price ’ , warns disease expert US will not participate in global coronavirus vaccine project

Atlanta's mayor told people to ignore the Georgia governor's decision to reopen businesses .
2020-04-25 07:01:54 +00:00 .
Screenshot / ABC News
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Bottoms strongly urged her constituents to remain at home to contain the coronavirus and ignore Republican Gov. Brian Kemp 's decision to rapidly reopen Georgia 's economy .
" Stay home .
Listen to the scientists , " Bottoms said .
" There is nothing essential about going to a bowling alley or getting a manicure in the middle of a pandemic . "
On April 20 , less than three weeks into his stay - at - home order , Kemp announced businesses all over the state , including gyms , nail salons , and bowling alleys , would reopen as soon as April 27 .
Trump initially supported Kemp 's move but later reversed his position and said he told Kemp he " strongly " disagreed with the rapid reopening .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Bottoms on Friday strongly urged her constituents to remain at home to contain the coronavirus and ignore Republican Gov. Brian Kemp 's decision to rapidly reopen Georgia 's economy .
On April 20 , less than three weeks into his stay - at - home order , Kemp announced businesses all over the state , including gyms , nail salons , and bowling alleys , would reopen as soon as April 27 .
" Stay home .
Listen to the scientists , " Bottoms told George Stephanopoulos on ABC News ' " Good Morning America . "
" There is nothing essential about going to a bowling alley or getting a manicure in the middle of a pandemic . "
Bottoms told Stephanopoulos that Kemp had not explained to her how his decision was guided by science or experts , and the mayor said Georgia did n't have its infection rate under control .
Kemp has a history of ignoring science .
He said he realized the virus could be transmitted by asymptomatic people in early April — weeks after the crucial fact was widely known .
" I 'm looking at data that shows that our numbers are not going down , " Bottoms said .
" Our death rate is continuing to go up ...
To make an assumption that we are out of the woods is not based on anything other than a desire to open up businesses . "
She added : " There are some who are willing to sacrifice lives for the sake of the economy , and that is unacceptable to me . "
The mayor said her city was attempting to financially support the workers and businesses most severely affected by the economic shutdown , including beauty salons and barber shops .
The lift of Georgia 's lockdown was met with backlash , and health experts have said that reopening too quickly without sufficient testing and contact tracing could mean a second wave of infections that 's more devastating .
Trump initially supported Kemp 's move but later reversed his position and said he told Kemp he " strongly " disagreed with the reopening .
" I told the governor of Georgia , Brian Kemp , that I disagree strongly with his decision to open certain facilities which are in violation of the phase - one guidelines for the incredible people of Georgia , " Trump said , referring to federal guidelines for the first stages of business reopenings .
" I want him to do what he thinks is right , " the president added .
" But I disagree with him on what he 's doing , but I want to let the governors do — now if I see something totally egregious , totally out of line , I 'll do — but I think spas and beauty salons and tattoo parlors and barbershops in phase one — we 're going to have phase two very soon — is just too soon . "
Sarah Al - Arshani contributed to this report .
Read the original article on Business Insider

Coronavirus came to New York from Europe, not China, governor says .
2020-04-25 06:11:22 +00:00 .
By Nathan Layne and Jessica Resnick - Ault
( Reuters ) - New York Governor Andrew Cuomo on Friday pointed to research showing that strains of the novel coronavirus entered his state from Europe , not China , and said that travel bans enacted by U.S. President Donald Trump were too late to halt its spread .
Cuomo cited research from Northeastern University estimating that more than 10,000 New Yorkers may have contracted the disease by the time the state had its first confirmed case on March 1 .
He said he believed Italy was the likely source .
The governor noted that Trump ordered a ban on travel from China on Feb. 2 , more than a month after news reports had emerged about an outbreak in the city of Wuhan , and decided to restrict travel from Europe the following month .
By that time , the virus had spread widely in the United States , he said .
" We closed the front door with the China travel ban , which was right , " Cuomo told a briefing . "
But we left the back door open because the virus had left China by the time we did the China travel ban . "
With his comments , Cuomo thrust himself into a heated and politically fraught debate about when and how the virus first entered the United States and whether officials like Trump and himself could have saved more lives if they had acted sooner .
Cuomo defended his own actions by pointing to the 19 days between New York 's first confirmed case and his lockdown order , arguing that he had moved faster than any other state .
He also said Trump , who last week halted U.S. contributions to the World Health Organization after accusing it of promoting China 's " disinformation " about the outbreak , was right to question whether the WHO responded properly to the crisis .
But Cuomo took aim at what he described as a slow reaction by the country 's leaders , even as increasingly disturbing reports emerged out of China in January and February about how quickly the virus was spreading and killing people .
Cuomo said as many as 2.2 million people took flights from Europe to New York and New Jersey airports in those two months , many of them likely carrying the highly contagious respiratory illness COVID-19 .
" We acted two months after the China outbreak .
When you look back , does anyone think the virus was still in China waiting for us to act two months later ?
" Cuomo said .
" The horse had already left the barn by the time we moved . "
Cuomo said it was important that the country learns from the mistakes that were made because the virus could surge again in autumn or a new virus could emerge .
" It will happen again .
Bank on it .
Let 's not put our head in the sand , " he said .
He said it was too early to reopen his state , which is in lockdown until at least May 15 .
He said the three - day rolling average for people newly admitted for COVID-19 was holding stubbornly around 1,300 per day , a worrisome sign .
But on a positive note , he said hospitalizations for COVID-19 totaled 14,258 on Thursday , declining for the tenth straight day .
He reported 422 additional deaths , the lowest daily total since March 31 .
( Reporting by Nathan Layne in Wilton , Connecticut and Jessica Resnick - Ault in New York ;
Editing by Chizu Nomiyama , Dan Grebler and Marguerita Choy )

Coronavirus: Hong Kong student in DSE exams vomits in toilet, given desk partition before leaving, causing stir among candidates .
2020-04-25 06:05:23 +00:00 .
The second day of Hong Kong ’s delayed university entrance exams started smoothly on Saturday morning , but at one venue , a sick student who threw up in a washroom caused a stir and sparked health concerns among fellow candidates .
Some 13,000 students took their tests on chemistry , combined science ( chemistry ) or integrated science at about 80 exam centres in secondary schools citywide , a much higher number than the 3,300 that sat for the visual arts exam the day before .
At Lions College in Kwai Chung , shortly before about 100 students started on their combined science paper at 8.30am , a male student fell sick and vomited in a toilet after entering the exam hall .
He did not have a fever .
Lam Wai - lok , 18 , wears a gas mask while working on his paper .
Photo :
Xiaomei Chen
More Staff at the school set up a plastic partition around his seat after he returned , to ease worries for those around him .
College principal James Lam Yat - fung said the candidate felt he was not able to take the exam and later decided to leave the campus .
“ It was common to see students feeling sick or throwing up at exam centres in previous years , ” Lam said .
“ Some may just be too nervous . ”
He said the student was “ very cooperative ” , and appealed to pupils who felt sick not to force themselves to take the tests .
Even so , student Alex Lee , 17 , said he was worried about infection risks although he took his exam in another room in the same school .
“ I am afraid we will catch the disease , ” he said , referring to his sick candidate and how he might have been near the person earlier .
Lee said he approved of the social - distancing arrangements in his classroom , but added he would try not to go to the toilet .
Lam wears a gas mask because he thinks it is safer .
Photo :
Xiaomei Chen
More
Another worried candidate was Lam Wai - lok , 18 , who wore a gas mask .
“ I can reuse this and its protection is better , ” he said , adding that he was a bit concerned about the sick student .
There are a total of more than 52,000 candidates taking this year ’s Diploma of Secondary Education exams between April 24 and May 25 .
The tests were initially expected to begin on March 27 , but were pushed back for a month as the city came under the grip of the health crisis .
Education authorities have stepped up infection control measures , such as placing desks about 1.8 metres apart and requiring all candidates and invigilators to wear masks .
Candidates were also required to fill in health declaration forms and be checked for body temperature upon entering the venue .
Those with a temperature of more than 38 degree Celsius would be asked to leave and go to a doctor promptly .
Temperature screenings performed on students taking the exams .
Photo :
Xiaomei Chen
More
On the first day of the exams , a total of six candidates were unable to sit for the visual arts paper due to fever or other illnesses .
Five of them called in sick and stayed away .
One reported being ill upon entering the venue and she was asked to leave .
Back at Lions College , Kandice Wong , 17 , was at ease , saying that if the sick student had chosen to stay , it would worry her .
Wong added that she had used an alcohol spray to sanitise her seat and desk .
She noted that desks in her hall might not be 1.8 metres from others , but still found the distance between candidates appropriate .
This article Coronavirus : Hong Kong student in DSE exams vomits in toilet , given desk partition before leaving , causing stir among candidates first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Prof Who Tried to Torch New York Cathedral Is Dead After COVID-19 Release Without Mental-Health Support .
2020-04-25 01:16:41 +00:00 .
A former CUNY philosophy professor released from Rikers Island over COVID-19 concerns after being convicted of trying to torch St. Patrick ’s Cathedral in New York has taken his life , according to his family .
Marc Lamparello , 38 , was freed on March 20 as part of a prison - wide effort to mitigate the spread of the deadly coronavirus , but was refused mental - health support despite being diagnosed with schizophrenia and requiring care , which he received in prison .
Justice Steven Statsinger signed his release under the condition that he participate in an outpatient program at New Jersey ’s Bergen New Bridge Medical Center .
But the center refused to treat him unless he carried out a two - week quarantine .
His family told the New York Post that the facility dropped him as a patient after his quarantine ended .
A month after his release , police found his body near the Verrazzano - Narrows Bridge .
His family says the hospital should have insisted he continue treatment even while quarantined .
“ The hospital dropped the ball tremendously , ” his mother Dolores Lamparello said through her lawyer .
“ They did nothing .
My son went a whole month without any treatment whatsoever .
They cost my son his life . ”
Lamparello ’s mother says the hospital errantly dropped him as a patient , despite the judge ’s order .
“ He was told he had to quarantine for two weeks and was later dropped as a patient without explanation , ” she said , telling the Post he told her , “ Mom , I need structure .
I ca n’t do nothing . ”
A few days after being dropped as a patient , on April 9 , he took his mother ’s car and drove to George Washington Bridge , where he climbed up a fence and called 911 .
He was talked down by police and admitted to New Bridge Medical Center , where he spent four days .
Upon his release , he was readmitted to the original health - care center that had refused him , and planned to start treatment via Zoom on Monday .
His life was ended before the sessions could begin .
The New Bridge center has since released a statement .
“ We send our condolences and sympathy to Mr. Lamparello ’s loved ones , ” the statement reads .
“ While we can not discuss specifics , the individual referenced had involvement with a variety of medical , psychiatric , and law - enforcement agencies .
His interactions with our facility and the treatment we provided followed our protocols . ”
Before he was detained with two gas canisters inside St. Patrick ’s Cathedral in April 2019 , Lamparello was arrested for refusing to leave a church in Newark , New Jersey .
At the time , he told officers , “ If you want me to leave tonight , you ’re gon na have to handcuff me and arrest me tonight and take me to jail . ”
A few days later — days after the devastating fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris — he was caught inside the New York church with two gasoline canisters and a lighter .
He said he was just “ passing through the church ” after his car ran out of gas but admitted at the time he had stopped taking his medication to treat his schizophrenia .
If you or a loved one are struggling with suicidal thoughts , please reach out to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1 - 800 - 273 - TALK ( 8255 ) , or contact the Crisis Text Line by texting TALK to 741741
Read more at The Daily Beast .
Get our top stories in your inbox every day .
Sign up now !
Daily Beast Membership :
Beast Inside goes deeper on the stories that matter to you .
Learn more .

Tycoon Running 500 Hotels Says Virus Crisis Is Worst He’s Seen .
2020-04-25 00:16:33 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Bill Heinecke thought he ’d seen it all in a decades - long career running hotels : the Asian and global financial crises , SARS , and military coups in his adopted home , Thailand .
But the current pandemic tops all that , he says .
Minor International Pcl , the hospitality group the tycoon founded in Bangkok , has furloughed thousands of workers and temporarily closed a majority of its more than 530 properties in the Asia Pacific , the Middle East , Africa , Europe and the Americas .
Some of the few still open have been re - purposed as hospitals .
“ This is not an economic recession , it ’s a depression , ” 70 - year - old Heinecke , who was born in the U.S. but became a Thai citizen , said in an interview .
“ The travel industry will definitely be changed after this , but it wo n’t go away . ”
Heinecke said the coronavirus crisis is going to transform hospitality as hotels come under more scrutiny for hygiene and health standards , raising costs to deliver cleaner rooms , beds and food .
That echoes comments from the likes of Arne Sorenson , chief executive officer of Marriott International Inc. , as the industry grapples with how to restart once lockdowns and travel curbs end .
The U.S. Travel Association -- which represents airlines , other transportation companies , local attractions and tourism bureaus -- estimates that lost revenue could approach $ 520 billion by the end of the year .
Once the pandemic abates , domestic tourism is expected to recover before international travel , Heinecke said in the April 23 interview .
Countries such as China and South Korea are more likely to see a rebound before Europe and the U.S. , as confirmed daily cases fall in Asia , he said .
“ There ’s going to be quite a lot of pent - up demand for travel when this is over , ” Heinecke said , adding operations in China are already showing early signs of a revival .
When demand bounces back , customers will opt for brands that can take necessary health , food and safety precautions , he said , adding they may shun private apartments or personal online accommodation listings .
Heinecke ’s business spans hotels as well as casual dining and quick - service restaurants .
Its hotel brands include the luxury Anantara resorts and the upmarket Avani .
The company also operates other brands , such as some Four Seasons properties .
Heinecke has said the acquisition of NH Hotel Group in 2018 for 2.3 billion euros ( $ 2.5 billion ) transformed Minor International into a truly global hospitality company .
This year the firm has suspended all significant investment to preserve cash .
Heinecke gave up his U.S. passport in the 1990s to become a Thai citizen .
He and his family own 33 % of Minor International , which reported net income of 10.7 billion baht ( $ 330 million ) in 2019 .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Cuomo says he'll decide in a week whether to keep schools and businesses closed past May 15 as the coronavirus ebbs .
2020-04-24 22:49:22 +00:00 .
Sgt .
Amouris Coss / U.S. Army National Guard / Handout / Reuters
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo on Friday said he 'll decide in a week whether to extend the business and school closures and stay - at - home orders — collectively referred to as the NY PAUSE program — past May 15 .
Cuomo reiterated that school closures and reopenings were his decision to make after New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced earlier this month that schools within the city would remain closed until the Fall .
Reopening schools and the wider New York economy is a careful balancing act , though deaths and hospitalizations from the coronavirus continue to fall .
" If you say , well , we 're done , ca n't stay in the house anymore , let 's just reopen , just start business tomorrow , let 's go - what happens ? "
Cuomo said from Albany .
" All the progress we made is gone and all experts or virtually all experts will say not only does the virus spread increase but it increases to a higher point than we had increased the first time . "
Here are the other key takeaways from Cuomo 's Friday press conference : Coronavirus deaths on Thursday fell to 422 , the lowest since April 1 .
The three - day averages of hospital admissions and intubations fell , building on trends from previous days .
There are now 16,162 coronavirus deaths and 14,200 hospitalizations across the state .
Still , statewide cases jumped to 271,590 on Thursday .
Cuomo warned of the dangers of a second wave of the virus .
"
The game is not over , " Cuomo said .
" Which means the game could be just at halftime so let 's make sure we 're learning the lessons of what has happened thus far . "
He also said to " bank on it " that a pandemic will happen again .
" Let 's not put our heads in the sand . "
Cuomo said the US acted too late in trying to halt the spread of the virus .
By the time the Trump Administration halted flights from Europe in March , " the horse had already left the barn .
" " We acted two months after the China outbreak , " Cuomo said .
" How can you expect that when you act two months after the outbreak in China the virus was only in China waiting for us to act ? "
" So what is the lesson ?
An outbreak anywhere is an outbreak everywhere , " Cuomo said , pointing to research that shows flights from Europe may have infected more than 10,000 New Yorkers with the coronavirus in February alone .
Cuomo issued an executive order allowing New Yorkers to vote absentee in the state 's June 23 primary .
Polling places will remain open .
New York is also looking at options to freeze rent in May , after de Blasio called for it earlier on Friday .
Cuomo again attacked Sen. Mitch McConnell over the Kentucky senator 's suggestion to have states declare bankruptcy .
New York is projecting a $ 61 billion budget shortfall as a result of the pandemic through 2024 .
Read the original article on Business Insider

The Largest U.S. Movie Theater Chain Won't Reopen Even If States Say It Can .
2020-04-24 21:03:40 +00:00 .
Although states are slowly starting to allow movie theaters to resume operations against the recommendations of public health experts , AMC Theatres , the largest movie theater chain in the U.S. , wo n’t reopen its locations until at least this summer .
“ As we plan our reopening , the health and safety of our guests and associates is our absolute highest priority , ” the company said Friday in a statement .
“ To be able to open , we also need a line of sight into a regular schedule of new theatrical blockbusters that get people truly excited about returning to their favorite movie theaters . ”
The earliest major releases currently on the calendar are Christopher Nolan ’s “ Tenet , ” scheduled for July 17 , and Disney ’s live - action remake of “ Mulan , ” now scheduled for July 24 after being moved from its original March opening .
AMC said it expects to allow moviegoers to return “ in the weeks ahead of these new blockbusters ” and is figuring out how to do so “ in an environment that ’s safe and welcoming , ” as the COVID-19 crisis makes the prospect of public events and gatherings unlikely for the foreseeable future .
An empty parking lot at an AMC location in Methuen , Massachusetts , on March 29 .
( Photo by Jim Davis / The Boston Globe via Getty Images )
More
Hollywood studios and distributors have postponed nearly all of the movies that had been slated for release in the spring and early summer .
Many have also opted to make some new releases available via video on demand or streaming , skipping the theaters entirely .
The lack of movie offerings — in addition to the myriad health risks ― made it all the more baffling that some state governors decided this week to allow movie theaters to reopen .
Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp ( R ) sparked widespread criticism this week when he announced businesses like gyms , hair salons and bowling alleys could reopen Friday , followed by movie theaters and restaurants on Monday .
Oklahoma is allowing movie theaters to reopen on May 1 .
Tennessee plans to allow “ the vast majority ” of businesses to reopen on May 1 as well , provided they follow specific guidance ...
Continue reading on HuffPost

Stock market is ‘telegraphing a recovery’ from coronavirus crisis: Ariel Investments Co-CEO Mellody Hobson .
2020-04-24 19:56:49 +00:00 .
A recent stock market rally despite the novel coronavirus outbreak left some market watchers worried about an overpriced market detached from a reeling economy with over 26 million newly unemployed .
But the resilient market should be a source of optimism , rather than concern , said Mellody Hobson , the co - CEO of multibillion - dollar firm Ariel Investments .
Buoyant stocks show that traders expect the economy to rebound from the downturn , she said , making the outbreak a buying opportunity for patient investors who come in after the early selloff .
“ In some ways , what the market is telling us , it 's telegraphing a recovery , ” she adds in an interview with Yahoo Finance on Thursday .
“ It 's telegraphing the fact that this will end — it will not go on forever , even though it feels like it will . ”
“ That does n't mean there wo n't be more pain and anguish , and certainly a lot of people are suffering right now , ” she says .
“ But the market in its own way is forecasting . ”
Ariel Investments Co - CEO Mellody Hobson appears on " Influencers with Andy Serwer . "
More
After reaching a low on March 23 , the SP 500 added 637 points or 28.5 % by the close last Friday , April 17 , recovering more than half of its drop from the record high of mid - February .
As of Friday morning , the index had fallen a modest 2.3 % this week , retaining most of the prior gains .
“ For the people [ who ] are really willing to take a long term view , it creates a buying opportunity , ” Hobson says .
“ Where you can buy companies that are out of favor , that have been thrown away , but where you can see a better future down the road , ” she adds .
“ That 's what we 're talking about not letting that opportunity go to waste . ”
Hobson acknowledged the severe economic damage wrought by the coronavirus , saying the current downturn is “ much more challenging ” than the global financial crisis and “ better days ” may not arrive until 2021 .
CHICAGO , IL - DECEMBER 06 :
Chair of The Economic Club of Chicago Mellody Hobson during the Economic Club of Chicago Dinner Meeting at Hilton Chicago on December 6 , 2018 in Chicago , Illinois .
( Photo by Barry Brecheisen / WireImage )
More
But she said the immediate aftermath of the crisis brought a sell - off driven by emotion rather than a clear - eyed economic outlook .
“ Certainly what we 've seen in the last few weeks have been some moments of panic , ” she says .
“ We saw some indiscriminate selling in the stock market , especially in the early days . ”
Since last year , Hobson has served as the co - CEO of Ariel Investments , a firm with assets totaling $ 12.9 billion , where she worked for nearly the past three decades .
She is also the firm ’s president , a position she has held since 2000 .
Her Ted Talk on challenging racial inequality , given in 2014 , has been viewed more than 3.7 million times .
While optimistic , Hobson urged caution for traders who choose to enter the market during the crisis .
“ That does n't mean rushing in and diving in headfirst , ” she says .
“ It means being very thoughtful , very patient . ”
“ You do n't go in headfirst right now , ” she adds .
Read more :

Stephen Fry mocks America's conservative news media for coronavirus misinformation .
2020-04-24 19:40:27 +00:00 .
British comedian Stephen Fry has taken aim at conservative news media for crippling the US 's coronavirus pandemic response .
In a video for his start - up YouTube channel Pindex , Mr Fry said coronavirus " misinformation spread through a rich network , crippling America 's defences " .
" In the US , a poll found that 57 per cent of people with a conservative news diet believe that the coronavirus posed a similar risk to seasonal flu , " Mr Fry said in the video .
A Gallup survey conducted from 17 March to 29 March found 28 per cent of people with a " liberal news diet " believed coronavirus posed a similar risk to the seasonal flu .
Of those without a designated left or right - leaning news diet , 52 per cent of people believed it posed a similar risk to flu .
Writing in the New England Medical Journal on 26 March , the White House 's coronavirus taskforce head and Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , Dr Anthony Fauci , said " the case fatality rate may be considerably less than 1 per cent .
This suggests that the overall clinical consequences of Covid-19 may ultimately be more akin to those of a severe seasonal influenza " .
Mr Fry read the statistics over a selection of clips compiled by far - left activist group
Now This and Comedy Central , highlighting preacher Rodney Howard - Browne and conservative radio personality Rush Limbaugh , as well as Fox News figures Jeanine Pirro and Dr Marc Siegel .
In the Comedy Central compilation tweeted out by Trevor Noah , Ms Pirro calls coronavirus on 7 March " a virus , like the flu . "
Dr Siegel on 6 March said " at worst , worst - case scenario it could be the flu " .
The clips were taken from early March , around the time the World Health Organisation tweeted out the similarities and differences between coronavirus and the flu and the WHO head Tedros Andhanom Ghebreyesus was encouraging people to " go outside and enjoy the fresh air " .
The Centres for Disease Control on 6 March said that facemasks were not recommended for people who are well before reversing the recommendations on 13 April .
Mr Fry goes on to say that America is a hotbed of conspiracy theories with over 50 per cent of people believing in at least one , like the country of Finland not existing .
" In the US , fake news is more likely to be shared than real news .
And a study found Fox News viewers to be less informed than people who do n't watch any news , " he said .
In reference to a 2012 study from Fairleigh Dickinson University , the survey of 1185 random subjects found people who watch no news at all can answer more questions about international current events than people who watch cable news , including Fox News and MSNBC .
The study found that NPR and Sunday morning political talk shows are the most informative news outlets , while exposure to partisan sources , such as Fox News and MSNBC , negatively impacting people 's knowledge of current events .
The largest effect was that of Fox News , but when controlled for partisanship , MSNBC , Fox News and talk radio consumers answered more questions correctly when their political views aligned with those of the outlets they preferred .
" Ideological news sources , like Fox and MSNBC , are really just talking to one audience , " political scientist and poll analyst Dan Cassino said of the results .
"
This is solid evidence that if you 're not in that audience , you 're not going to get anything out of watching them . "

The 2020 Woodward Dream Cruise is still on, scheduled for mid-August .
2020-04-24 18:48:42 +00:00 .
The 2020 Woodward Dream Cruise is still on for August .
Since the Pebble Beach Concours d’Elegance was just canceled the other day due to coronavirus , we decided to check in on the hugely popular Michigan summer event for car enthusiasts .
The two events typically run on the same weekend in August , and this year was no different .
Pebble was scheduled for Sunday , August 16 , and the Dream Cruise is still scheduled for Saturday , August 15 .
The Detroit Free Press initially reported the news .
Michael Lary , Dream Cruise president confirmed to us that the event is still on .
“ As we all go about making the necessary and current adjustments to protect public health through social distancing , the 26th Annual Woodward Dream Cruise is continuing as planned in August , ” Lary says .
Of course , the Woodward Dream Cruise is a vastly different event than the Pebble Beach Concours .
Owners have to make preparations months in advance to ship their cars to Monterey from all over the place .
Folks in Michigan simply have to leave their garage and mosey on over to Woodward Ave .
However , both events end up gathering huge numbers of people in one area , which would raise anybody ’s alarm bells these days .
We asked if there were any restrictions that are currently being considered for the Dream Cruise , but Lary did n’t define any for the time being .
We do n’t exactly know what the world is going to look like in mid - August right now anyways .
“ Please know that we are working to deliver the same caliber of family - fun activities that you have come to expect for the past twenty - five years , ” Lary told us .
“ The Woodward Dream Cruise continues to rely on the strong relationships we have with cruisers , sponsors , exhibitors , spectators , and enthusiasts , to provide another celebration of all things automotive . ”
We 've asked Woodward Dream Cruise sponsors and partners , including Ford ( the presenting sponsor ) , for comment and will update when we hear back .
There ’s every chance this news could end up flipping at a later date , but organizers of the event are plowing full steam ahead for the time being .
Even if the official day and events surrounding it are canceled , the Dream Cruise is far more than just the one Saturday .
Cruisers are traditionally out for weeks to months before the event , taking laps of Woodward for fun .
Mini car meets sprout up along the roadside parking lots .
The spontaneous and public - driven nature of the “ event ” makes us wonder what a Dream Cruise with coronavirus would even look like .
Cruisers keeping to themselves in their cars does n’t sound particularly dangerous for spreading the disease .
But spectators and crowded parking lots sound like an anxiety - inducing nightmare .
That said , the state of the world in August will likely be the deciding factor .
Do we have a full Dream Cruise ?
Or a Dream Cruise with heavy restrictions ?
Or no Dream Cruise at all ?
Related video :

Singapore Ponders Mass Testing as Virus Outbreak Balloons .
2020-04-24 18:04:27 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Singapore is looking to pivot to a more aggressive coronavirus response strategy that involves mass testing for its population of 5.7 million people as cases in the city - state jumped more than ten - fold this month to cross 11,000 .
The country hopes to be able to “ progressively reopen ” its economy in about a month ’s time , with “ much more testings for the entire population and at the same time to take on ” additional safe distancing measures , Minister for Trade and Industry
Chan Chun Sing said Thursday in an interview with Bloomberg TV ’s Haslinda Amin .
While Chan did not elaborate on the plan , it would mark further toughening in the stance of a country that until now has relied on methodical contact tracing and a more moderate testing policy .
Already , Singapore is ramping up testing among its foreign workers , who make up the vast majority of its confirmed cases , though continued local transmission and rising unlinked cases remain a concern .
The trade ministry said it did n’t have further comments beyond Chan ’s interview .
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said this week that the country needs to scale up testing for Covid-19 “ substantially ” so that it can quickly detect any new cases that pop up . ”
This we are progressively doing , not only by procuring test kits and equipment from other countries , but also by developing and manufacturing our own test kits , ” he said .
Read more :
How Singapore Flipped From Virus Hero to Cautionary Tale
Testing Rate
Singapore ’s early public rhetoric indicated a reluctance to test widely , with a focus on those with symptoms to avoid wasting tests .
Kenneth Mak , the health ministry ’s director of medical services , said in early March that “ community testing for all people , irrespective of whether they have symptoms or not , will generate a lot of activity ” but have a low yield .
The city - state has already been testing at a very high rate compared to other countries , according to health experts .
The health ministry ’s website says it had swabbed about 14,500 unique individuals per million as of April 20 , with more than 80,000 unique people tested in total .
The possible move comes as South Korea , which launched a massive testing campaign , managed to slow the growth of infection by early March .
Due in part to its actions , the epidemic spiked quickly in the country but also ebbed rapidly .
Hong Kong also widened its virus response beyond contact tracing to include community testing as it became apparent the coronavirus was different from 2003 ’s Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome , where those infected fell seriously -- and obviously -- ill .
A pivot in Singapore ’s strategy could come as it grapples with a surge in cases among low - wage migrant workers living in cramped dormitories , who have long been essential in the city - state ’s service and construction sectors .
It reported a fourth straight day of virus cases going above 1,000 on Thursday , and confirmed cases now number more than 12,000 .
Almost 900 cases were reported Friday , with Singaporeans or permanent residents making up 13 cases .
While total cases are rising , infections in the local community have in fact dropped since so - called “ circuit breaker ” measures were installed more than two weeks ago .
Those cases fell to an average of 25 per day in the past week , from an average of 34 cases per day in the week before , the health ministry said Thursday .
( Updates with confirmed cases on Friday in 10th paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Some Mexico Doctors Attacked with Bleach Over Virus Fears .
2020-04-24 17:51:20 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Dr. Angela Vargas works in a Mexico City hospital with rheumatic disease patients , not coronavirus cases .
But when she leaves the clinic she ’s treated as if she ’s sick herself .
To avoid getting attacked , like some of her colleagues have , Vargas , 46 , changes into civilian clothes when she leaves the hospital .
“ If people see that you ’re a nurse or that you work at a hospital , they look at you like you ’re infected , ” she told Bloomberg on Thursday .
While doctors from Florida to Italy have been cheered on by the public , in Mexico some have been assaulted in the streets , banned from public transportation , and in a few cases doused in bleach .
It happened to a head nurse at Vargas ’s hospital , and according to news reports to a doctor in the state of Jalisco and a nurse in Sinaloa .
Mexico is n’t the only country where doctors have been targeted by those who fear they ’re spreading the virus .
In India , health - care workers have been beaten by mobs or forced out of apartment buildings .
Assaults have been reported from Australia to the Philippines .
On Monday , Fabiana Zepeda , the head nurse of Mexico ’s national health system , known as IMSS , pleaded with people at a press conference to stop assaults against health workers .
She said IMSS has recorded at least 21 attacks on staff in 12 states , but many more have been reported through social media .
“ We invite you , sincerely , to respect us , ” she said with tears in her eyes .
“ We need the utmost solidarity in these times that call for all Mexicans to stick together , ” she said in a presentation during the health ministry ’s daily COVID-19 presentation .
Mexico has 11,633 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and 1,069 deaths as of Thursday .
Health authorities say the true number of patients may be eight times that amount .
Apart from aggression , health care workers face a beleaguered hospital system that lacked equipment and staff even before the virus spread .
Hospital staff in various cities , including Tijuana , have denounced shortages of protective gear and personnel .
Vargas says her residents are buying their own surgical masks in Mexico City .
As of April 10 , 329 doctors and nurses tested positive for the virus , Victor Hugo Borja , an IMSS official , told local media .
In Coahuila state alone , at least 100 were sick and five died as of April 15 .
Since then , the head of a hospital in the state succumbed to COVID-19 .
President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has said the country ’s hospitals are prepared to deal with the crisis .
“ We have n’t reached capacity yet , ” he said on Wednesday , while acknowledging that medical equipment is needed to prepare for when the outbreak reaches its peak .
Mexico is expecting to receive 2,500 ventilators from China and the U.S. during the months of April and May.
The government is also seeking to hire more medical staff and has implemented a bonus for those treating COVID-19 patients of about 20 % of their salary .
The National Guard began guarding the doors of IMSS hospitals on April 14th to protect workers and patients alike , Zepeda said .
But Vargas says Mexico needs to do more to protect hospital workers from attacks .
“ It ’s unnerving and sad , ” she said .
“ People do n’t understand that some of those health workers who could get hurt from an attack , means fewer workers to treat COVID-19 patients . ”
( Updates with number of hospital staff infected and latest data on virus cases overall in Mexico .
Previously updated with similar attacks in India in fifth paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Iowa frat allegedly threw a party with as many as 50 people, violating coronavirus order .
2020-04-24 12:45:44 +00:00 .
IOWA CITY , Iowa — The University of Iowa chapter of Sigma Chi is under a school investigation for allegedly holding a party in violation of Gov. Kim Reynold 's ban on gatherings of more than 10 people .
The social event allegedly took place on March 28 and involved under - aged drinking and as many as 50 people .
In a notice sent to the fraternity , UI officials said the number of attendees , if accurate , was a violation of the " University and state of Iowa expectations to limit gatherings " during the pandemic .
Sigma Chi Fraternity International 's executive director and spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment Thursday .
Iowa City police received a report that more than 10 people had gathered at the Sigma Chi house at about 6 p.m. on March 28 , but an officer did not respond to the scene .
The University of Iowa campus is now largely empty in an attempt to thwart the spread of COVID-19 .
With exceptions , UI officials ordered students to evacuate campus dorms by March 29 .
Fraternity houses , however , are not on campus or in the university 's authority .
In a statement , Hayley Bruce , the UI 's assistant director of media relations , said UI officials " strongly encouraged " Greek chapters to close their off - campus homes in March .
To date , Bruce said 12 fraternity chapter homes have closed and the remaining 14 chapters ' homes have been open only for members who have a need for housing .
" We expect and encourage members of our campus community to take COVID-19 seriously , follow guidelines from the governor and the CDC , and practice social distancing in order to reduce greater spread of the virus , " Bruce said in a statement .
The UI chapter of Sigma Chi was one of several fraternities investigated in December 2018 for alcohol violations related to tailgate parties .
But unlike most fraternities investigated at that time , the UI determined there was not a preponderance of evidence to support disciplinary action against the Sigma Chi chapter .
Sigma Chi 's national leaders launched an investigation into the fraternity 's possible rule violations in February .
In response , the UI temporarily suspended the chapter .
In February , officials at the national chapter declined to explain the nature of the UI chapter 's rule violations .
The UI confirmed Thursday that the national chapter was returned to its prior status following the February investigation .
►
More : 3 University of Iowa fraternities under investigation for campus violations
This article originally appeared on Iowa City Press - Citizen : Coronavirus : University of Iowa Sigma Chi frat allegedly threw party

Philippines extends capital's coronavirus lockdown to May 15 .
2020-04-24 04:40:23 +00:00 .
By Martin Petty and Neil Jerome Morales MANILA ( Reuters ) - Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has extended until May 15 a lockdown in the capital Manila , his spokesman said on Friday , stretching to eight weeks one of the world 's strictest community quarantines to curb coronavirus infections .
The measures will be expanded to other regions with big outbreaks but modified in lower - risk areas , which would see a partial resumption of work , transport and commerce , Harry Roque told reporters .
Television broadcast images on Friday of a crisis panel meeting where Duterte had made the decision late the previous day .
He even offered a reward of 50 million pesos ( $ 986,000 ) to any Filipino who could create a vaccine .
" We are all at risk , but do not increase the odds or chances of getting it , " he said , warning against complacency .
Manila , a heavily congested city of at least 13 million people and millions more informal settlers , accounts for more than two - thirds of the country 's 6,981 infections and 462 deaths .
After China and Italy , but just a few days before Spain , the Philippines became the third country to order tight lockdown and home quarantine , even though it had only a fraction of the infections and deaths of nations that took similar measures .
The Philippines introduced curbs on immigration , travel , commerce , gatherings on March 12 , five days after the first case of domestic transmission , and expanded on March 16 .
It is closed to all except repatriated Filipinos .
The approach aims to keep overstretched health services from from being overwhelmed and create a window to ramp up testing , which started slowly to gain ground in recent weeks .
But with just 72,000 tests , the government last week estimated it had managed to track only a quarter of projected infections .
The health ministry has said it was too early to say if the infection curve had been flattened .
( Interactive graphic tracking global spread of coronavirus : https://graphics.reuters.com/CHINA-HEALTH-MAP/0100B59S39E/index.html ) ( Additional reporting by Karen Lema ;
Editing by Clarence Fernandez )

Twitter names Trump the 'Tide Pods' president after he suggests disinfectant injections .
2020-04-24 02:59:48 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON – After President Donald Trump wondered Thursday about possibly injecting disinfectants into people infected with the coronavirus , " Tide Pods " and other household cleaners began trending on Twitter .
" And then I saw the disinfectant , where knocks it out in one minute , and is there a way we could do something like that by injection inside or almost a cleaning , " the president said during his White House press briefing .
" As you see it gets in the lungs , it does a tremendous number on the lungs , so it would be interesting to check that . "
More : New HHS spokesman Michael Caputo deleted racist tweets related to the coronavirus
Afterwards , Bill Bryan , an undersecretary of science and technology at the Department of Homeland Security , clarified that that was n't possible .
However , Trump replied : " maybe it works , maybe it does n't work . "
Trump 's comments came after Bryan had been discussing a new federal study that touted sunlight and household disinfectants as being effective in killing the novel coronavirus on surfaces or in the air .
Soon after Trump 's comments about injections , cleaners such as Lysol , Clorox and Tide Pods , a reference to a dangerous online challenge where teens put laundry pods in their mouth , started trending on Twitter .
More : Federal prison system expands virus testing to find hidden asymptomatic infections
Trump did not specify the kind of disinfectant in his comments Thursday .
Former Vice President Joe Biden , the presumptive Democratic nominee , tweeted : " UV light ?
Injecting disinfectant ?
Here ’s an idea , Mr. President : more tests .
Now .
And protective equipment for actual medical professionals . "
The Washington Military Department 's Emergency Management Division pleaded , " Please do n't eat tide pods or inject yourself with any kind of disinfectant " and to not " make a bad situation worse . "
Food and Drug Commissioner Dr. Stephen Hahn was asked about such methods during a CNN town hall following Trump 's comments .
He responded , “ I certainly would n't recommend the internal ingestion of a disinfectant . "
The FDA warns against ingesting disinfectants , saying consumption of “ products can cause nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and symptoms of severe dehydration . "
More : California had its deadliest day Wednesday , even as COVID-19 cases start to stabilize
More : Trump touts study on sunlight to kill coronavirus , but official warns against Americans changing behavior
The president also floated the idea of treating patients with " light inside the body . "
Trump has touted unproven treatments for COVID-19 before , including saying hydroxychloroquine as a potential " game changer . "
However , multiple studies have found that it was dangerous at high doses .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Twitter reacts with Tide Pods jokes after Trump comments

'We're going to be in a lot of trouble' if we roll back coronavirus restrictions: Johns Hopkins doctor .
2020-04-24 01:57:23 +00:00 .
Georgia , South Carolina , and Florida are taking steps to restart their local economies with plans in place to roll back restrictions meant to mitigate the spread of the novel coronavirus .
But Johns Hopkins Biocontainment Unit medical director Dr. Brian Garibaldi told Yahoo Finance ’s
The Ticker this week that he ’s “ really worried ” about reopening the economy too soon because of how it could interfere with “ our ability to try to limit the spread of this infection . ”
“ We have a long way to go before we can start thinking about getting back to business as usual , ” Garibaldi said .
“ If we ’re not careful about how we stage relaxing some of these restrictions that have led to a slowing of the infection rate , we ’re going to be in a lot of trouble . ”
He added : “ We ’re going to be right back to the panic that we had a month ago when we were talking about running out of ventilators , running out of hospital beds .
Those conditions do n’t change .
If we go back to business as usual , we ’re going to be right back where we were in that panic state a month ago . ”
Plans to reopen local economies
The plans to reopen businesses vary across state lines .
For example , Florida Governor Ron DeSantis has started to reopen some beaches in his state , while Georgia Governor Brian Kemp announced plans to reopen businesses including gyms , tattoo parlors , and hair salons as early as Friday .
In South Carolina , Governor Henry McMaster revised the list of closings he ordered earlier this month , allowing retail shops ranging from clothing stores to furniture stores to flea markets to reopen this week .
And in Tennessee , the state ’s stay - at - home order is set to expire April 30 .
JACKSONVILLE BEACH , FLORIDA - APRIL 19 : Jacksonville Mayor Lenny Curry announced Thursday that Duval County 's beaches would open from 7 a.m. until 11 a.m. and from 5 p.m. until 7 p.m. after a decrease in coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) cases .
( Photo by Sam Greenwood / Getty Images )
More Garibaldi rebukes these decisions .
“ I have colleagues that work down in [ those areas ] and I think they ’ve been taxed .
They ’ve been stressed .
We ’re all worried about what capacity we ’re going to be able to handle in terms of new infections if we go back to business as usual too soon . ”
A model used by the White House from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington recently issued a state - by - state analysis of when states could consider easing social distancing and found South Carolina , Florida , and Georgia should not open until June 8 , June 14 , and June 22 respectively .
The need for a vaccine Many health experts warn we wo n’t be able to return to business as usual until we have a vaccine that ’s proven effective against COVID-19 ,
the disease caused by the novel coronavirus , which could be more than a year away .
Dr. Anthony Fauci , Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , as well as many others in the medical field , say that in the best - case scenario , a vaccine wo n’t be ready for another 12 to 18 months .
“ I think it ’s going to be unlikely we can get back to where we were in January until we have a vaccine .
All of these trials that are ongoing in therapeutics is really a Band - Aid , ” Garibaldi said .
“ We need a vaccine ...
We have a long way to go before we can start thinking about getting back to business as usual . ”
Seana Smith is the anchor for The Ticker .
Follow her on Twitter @SeanaNSmith READ MORE : Find live stock market quotes and the latest business and finance news
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , LinkedIn , and reddit .

Guatemalan wrongly deported amid coronavirus crisis is reunited with family in U.S. .
2020-04-24 00:16:01 +00:00 .
He was wearing a mask while he waited to see her .
She arrived in a car .
They then held hands , gave each other a hug and started to cry .
" I am very happy .
It had been almost a month since I saw my wife , and I am going to see my children in a little while , " said Gilmer Barrios , a Guatemalan immigrant who was reunited with his wife and their two small children this week .
Barrios , 28 , was arrested on March 23 by U.S. Customs and Border Protection in Southern California and was deported four days later to Tijuana , Mexico , without having a deportation order and without first seeing an immigration judge .
He spent 21 days in Mexico without being authorized to be there , until the United States reinstated him .
Noticias Telemundo first reported Barrios ' case , alerting the Guatemalan consulates , who then negotiated Barrios ' re - entry into the United States .
His irregular expulsion occurred in the midst of the coronavirus emergency .
Border Patrol was granted new emergency powers during the pandemic , or at least until May 20 .
They now have the authority to immediately remove migrants who just crossed the border .
In March , agents used their new authority to remove 6,306 people , according to official data .
There are estimates that the total number of removals is more than 10,000 , including in the first days of April .
But Barrios was not a migrant who had crossed the border ; he has lived in the United States for over a decade .
Authorities arrested him while he was driving and he spent three days in custody .
During that time , he asked to see an immigration judge .
Wendi Lee , a CBP spokesperson , told Noticias Telemundo by email that Barrios was expelled after being detained at a checkpoint on I-15 in California .
“ It was later discovered that he had pending immigration processes in the United States .
The Border Patrol of the San Diego sector quickly took action with the assistance of the Guatemalan Consul General to allow Mr. Barrios re - entry to the United States , ” she said .
Barrios told Noticias Telemundo that his return was less traumatic than his removal .
“ Several agents and the head of the Border Patrol in San Diego were waiting for me with my name .
They asked me my name and they took many photos of me , " he said .
Gilmer Barrios and his wife Kimberly Barrios Hernandez are reunited a month after Border Patrol arrested him and wrongly deported him to Mexico .
( Courtesy of Tzunu Strategies via Telemundo )
More
After his return to the United States , he spent six days detained at a Border Patrol station in Chula Vista , California .
He was then released on parole to continue working on his pending immigration case .
“ They did n't insult me ​​and they did n't hit me like they did the first time .
I was one of the people they treated the best .
I do n't know why , but they treated me well , ” Barrios said in a video that the communication agency Tzunu Strategies shared with Noticias Telemundo .
Barrios ' wife , Kimberly Barrios - Hernández , said that the behavior of their two toddlers changed during their father 's 28 - day absence .
“ They were very sad , very serious .
They clung much more to me , " she said .
" If I just went to another room , they already felt that I was going to leave them , that they were not going to see me anymore . "
Investigative reporter Damià Bonmatí first reported the story for Noticias Telemundo .
Follow NBC Latino on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram .

SpeedCast Files Bankruptcy With Cruise and Oil Customers Reeling .
2020-04-23 19:51:16 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Satellite communication provider SpeedCast International Ltd. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy after a collapse in oil prices and the halting of cruise - industry operations squeezed many of its biggest customers .
SpeedCast , headquartered in Australia , will likely seek to re - shape its balance sheet and attain fresh cash during its bankruptcy , a representative said in an emailed statement .
The process is expected take about six months .
The company has commitments from current lenders for a $ 90 million bankruptcy loan , according to a separate statement .
The bankruptcy filing does n’t include SpeedCast ’s government - business entities , which provide communication and reconnaissance platforms to the U.S. and others , according to company statements and a court declaration from Chief Restructuring Officer Michael Healy .
Pressures facing SpeedCast ’s customers in the energy and maritime industries , coupled with cruise - industry challenges , derailed the company ’s planned equity raise outside of court , according to the statement .
The company is operating normally and intends to honor customer and employee commitments .
SpeedCast provides satellite communication technology to companies operating in remote locations around world .
The company serves about 50 % of ocean - going cruise ships globally , Healy said .
A three - year contract with Carnival Corp. was expected to account for as much as 9 % of SpeedCast ’s 2019 revenue , according to a statement at the time .
The company was under pressure before coronavirus gripped the global economy .
SP Global Ratings slashed SpeedCast ’s credit grade deeper into junk in February , citing limited cash availability and “ persistent weak operating conditions . ”
SpeedCast then skipped a payment that was due March 31 on its $ 600 million term loan .
SpeedCast owes millions to other satellite companies , including about $ 45 million to Intelsat , court papers show .
Intelsat recently skipped a debt payment and is seeking bankruptcy financing , Bloomberg previously reported .
SpeedCast listed assets and liabilities of as much as $ 1 billion each in its bankruptcy petition .
It generated $ 722 million in revenue in 2019 , but posted net losses totaling about $ 460 million , Healy said .
Weil , Gotshal Manges LLP and Herbert Smith Freehills LLP are SpeedCast ’s legal counsel .
FTI Consulting Inc. is its financial and operational adviser .
Moelis Co. is its investment banker .
The case is SpeedCast International Limited et al . , 20 - 32243 , U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

In a month, coronavirus wipes out the 22 million jobs gained since the Great Recession .
2020-04-23 18:36:35 +00:00 .
It took the coronavirus pandemic a matter of weeks to wipe out a decade ’s worth of new jobs .
About 26 million Americans have filed unemployment claims between the week ending March 21 and the week ending April 18 , according to data released Thursday by the U.S. Department of Labor .
About 4.4 million new claims were filed just last week .
That ’s the entirety , and then some , of the 22 million jobs CNBC reports were created since the U.S. started to bounce back from the Great Recession of 2007 - 2009 .
The U.S. had been experiencing a historic economic boom since late 2010 , but it came to a screeching halt in February .
Millions of Americans have been left jobless as many businesses across the country lay off or furlough workers in response to measures in place to slow the spread of COVID-19 .
The number of new jobless claims has started to taper off in recent weeks .
About 6.9 million new claims were filed during the week ending March 28 .
The following week new claims dropped slightly to 6.6 million , then to 5.2 million and 4.4 . million in the subsequent weeks , data show .
About 16 % of America ’s workforce has filed for unemployment benefits , surging above the 10 % jobless rate Reuters reports the country experienced during the Great Recession .
Today ’s level of job losses has n’t been seen since the Great Depression of the 1930s , The Washington Post reports .
And despite the fact new unemployment claims have decreased for three weeks now , the numbers are still striking , especially in comparison .
During the week of April 11 last year , 203,000 people applied for unemployment benefits , data show .
That compares to 5.2 million the same week this year .
That ’s an increase of 2,462 % .
But some experts are hopeful the worst of job losses is behind us .
“ While layoffs and furloughs are likely to continue across a number of industries in coming weeks , we are cautiously optimistic that the peak in layoffs following initial widespread closures has occurred , ” Andrew Hollenhorst , an economist at Citigroup in New York , told Reuters .
Peter Boockvar , chief investment officer at Bleakley Advisory Group , told CNBC he ’s hopeful the “ dizzying pace ” of jobless claims will slow down as businesses start to reopen and restrictions are eased .
“ As the economy begins to reopen in May , whether the local shop or the factories that are lining up to do so in coming weeks , we ’re likely seeing the peak in claims as people get back to work , ” he told the news outlet .
“ Again , the pace at which they will is the question . ”

Texas says its ban on abortion is over .
2020-04-23 16:52:29 +00:00 .
Texas will allow abortions to resume in the state after weeks of legal sparring , according to a Wednesday night filing from the state 's attorney general .
For more than four weeks , abortion services have been largely unavailable in the state , marking the first time the procedure has been halted in a state in nearly 50 years .
On Tuesday evening , Governor Greg Abbott 's March 21 executive order suspending " non - essential " medical procedures amid the coronavirus pandemic — which the Attorney General Ken Paxton later clarified to include abortion — expired .
On Wednesday , the new executive order went into effect .
The new directive suspends some medical procedures but offers exceptions to providers that do n't use hospital beds or request personal protective equipment , like masks and gloves , from public sources .
Texas ' abortion providers argued they qualified for those exceptions — and the state agreed .
" ... there is no case or controversy remaining , as Plaintiffs have already certified they are in compliance with an exception , " Texas ' attorney general wrote in the filing Wednesday evening .
" Finally , women in Texas can get the time - sensitive abortion care that they are constitutionally guaranteed , " Nancy Northup , President and CEO of the Center for Reproductive Rights , told CBS News .
" Women never should have had to go to court to get essential health care .
We will be vigilant in ensuring there are no future interruptions to services , including by assessing the appropriate next steps to take in the case . "
Planned Parenthood and the Texas Attorney General did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
The filing comes after weeks of sparring between the state and abortion - rights advocates .
In early April , a lower court and an appeals court ruled that medication abortion , which involves a patient taking pills to terminate a pregnancy , could continue , despite the executive order banning all pregnancy termination " not medically necessary to preserve the life or health " of the patient .
But on April 20 , a federal appeals court reversed that ruling , only offering an exception for patients who would be past the state 's legal limit by April 22 , when the order was set to have expired .
At the time , the battle seemed destined to reach the Supreme Court .
Seven other states are still facing legal battles over restricting abortion access during the pandemic .
In a sweep of legal filings , a coalition of abortion rights groups have challenged similar bans in Alabama , Arkansas , Iowa , Louisiana , Ohio , Oklahoma and Tennessee .
So far , judges have ordered bans to be at least partially lifted nearly everywhere but Arkansas .
When the coronavirus hit , California turned to artificial intelligence to help map the spread
How to navigate your finances if you are furloughed or laid off
Coronavirus pandemic affecting sleep patterns

Delta Air Lines Seeks $3 Billion in Bonds, Loan on Shutdown .
2020-04-23 14:45:39 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Delta Air Lines Inc. is seeking to raise $ 3 billion from loans and bonds as it grapples with a global travel shutdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic .
The company is offering five - year bonds to investors at a yield of about 7 % , according to people familiar with the matter .
Delta is also seeking a term loan under the plan , and the financing would be evenly split between the two , the company said late Wednesday .
The debt will be secured by collateral including domestic slots at New York airports and those at Heathrow in London as well as other European and Latin American routes .
Delta ’s borrowing efforts come after United Airlines Holdings Inc. sold more than $ 1 billion in stock at $ 26.50 a share -- a historically low price and the first such offering by a major U.S. airline during the worst crisis in the industry ’s history .
Both companies had been in talks with banks on new debt issuance to bolster liquidity and supplement cash to be raised from government loans , Bloomberg News previously reported .
Delta , which is already stepping up cost cutting efforts , obtained a $ 2.6 billion one - year loan from JPMorgan Chase Co last month and has drawn $ 3 billion under its existing credit lines .
Read more : Delta Air favors new debt over equity after United ’s fire sale
Barclays Plc is leading the new term loan , which matures in 2023 .
JPMorgan is leading the junk bond offering , which is expected to price on April 28 , the same day as commitments are due on the loan .
Delta ’s latest debt will help boost liquidity , after the company reported on Wednesday that first - quarter sales tumbled 18 % to $ 8.59 billion and it posted an adjusted loss of 51 cents a share for the period compared with earnings of 96 cents a share a year earlier .
The company also vowed to cut its daily cash burn in half as it seeks to scale back operations .
Chief Financial Officer Paul Jacobson said on an earnings call that the airline ’s options included borrowing against $ 13.5 billion in unencumbered assets , or selling planes and leasing them back from the buyers .
Delta has also applied for $ 4.6 billion in U.S. government loans which if tapped , would complement the $ 5.4 billion in emergency U.S. payroll support the company has already lined up .
( Updates with details on bonds and loan from second paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Trump's coronavirus rescue package must double to $4tn, says Nobel-prize winning economist .
2020-04-23 09:26:51 +00:00 .
The US government will likely need to end up at least doubling its $ 2 trillion coronavirus economic rescue package , according to a Nobel prize - winning economist .
Professor Edmund Phelps of New York ’s Columbia University told Econ Films ’ CoronaNomics show that the $ 2 trillion support package passed by Congress and signed into law by Donald Trump last month in order to help the US economy cope with the shock of the Covid-19 lockdown was likely to prove insufficient .
“ I think it was probably the first crack at the problem and there certainly will be more to come , ” he said , speaking from his home in Manhattan where the 86 - year - old is in lockdown .
“ Certainly they could need to do another $ 2 trillion .
We could do another one just the same size .
Then there ’ll be a wait and see .
And conceivably it ’ll be a third one depending on what the needs seem to be . ”
A tripling of the package would take it to $ 6 trillion , almost a third of US GDP .
The original $ 2 trillion package – known as the Coronavirus Aid , Relief and Economic Security Act – was signed into law by the President on 27 March .
It includes $ 290bn in cheques for US households , $ 500bn in loans for large firms including airlines , $ 150bn in additional health spending and $ 350bn in government - guaranteed loans for small businesses .
The small business loans , which provided funds to cover companies ' payroll and prevent layoffs , ran out of funding two weeks after it started accepting loans .
The Senate this week approved an additional $ 320bn in funding for the program .
Mr Phelps won the Nobel – the highest honour in economics in 2006 – for his work on how people ’s expectations ’ influence inflation , which helped revolutionise economic policymaking in the 1980s and 1990s .
But more recently his work , at Columbia ’s Center on Capitalism and Society , has focused on how to encourage and stimulate the private sector innovation that drives economic growth .
Mr Phelps has been an advocate of free markets and a limited role for the state .
But he told CoronaNomics that the nature of the economic emergency had persuaded him that it was vital for the governments to intervene extensively in the private economy to ensure it can survive this crisis .
“ To my horror , I find myself OK - ing temporary corporatism , ” he said .
“ Corporatism historically has been a disaster for lots of countries and we do n’t want to go down that road .
Capitalism is a thousand times better , but now we ’re in a paradoxical situation in which we got to save capitalism .
[ And ] to save capitalism , we ’re going to need the government to spend some money to prop up failing corporations . ”
Since the US support package was passed US unemployment insurance claims have exploded , with 22 million people making claims now seeking assistance .
Some economists have said that the US unemployment could ultimately shoot above 20 per cent , heights not seen since the Great Depression of the 1930s .
The unprecedented surge in layoffs has led to calls for still more government assistance to households and businesses .
Watch Edmund Phelp 's CoronaNomincs interview here .
Read more READ MORE
Will the $ 2 trillion American economic bailout package be enough ?
The dirty truth about washing your hands
What is the difference between Covid-19 and the common cold and flu ?
Can face masks really protect you against coronavirus or flu ?
The UK government ’s four stages of fighting coronavirus explained
What are symptoms of coronavirus – and where has it spread ?

Coronavirus: Plane carrying protective equipment for health workers finally arrives from Turkey .
2020-04-23 05:58:04 +00:00 .
A commercial supplier in Turkey did not have enough stock to fulfil an order for 84 tonnes of protective equipment supposed to be bound for the UK , Turkish officials have said .
British sources said the UK government was working with the company and the Turkish authorities to secure the shipment " as soon as possible " - though no time frame was given .
It comes as a flight carrying PPE - urgently needed by front line health workers as they treat COVID-19 patients in the UK - arrived from Turkey , following days of delays .
The Royal Air Force plane arrived at Brize Norton in Oxfordshire from Istanbul just after 3 am .
The total consignment of 84 tonnes includes 400,000 clinical gowns , but it is not clear how much of this was on today 's flight .
An initial batch of just 2,500 gowns was sent to the airport in Istanbul for quality control checks on Tuesday .
Turkish officials said Britain 's attempt to buy the protective equipment from a Turkish firm ran into trouble because the supplier did not have enough stock .
: : Listen to the Daily podcast on Apple Podcasts , Google Podcasts , Spotify , Spreaker Turkey 's ambassador to the UK , Umit Yalcin , told Sky News : " As far as I understand there have been problems with the private supplier company .
" Now Turkey is cooperating with the UK authorities to find a quick solution for the UK 's urgent needs .
" Turkey helped the UK by donating 250,000 pieces of personal protective equipment last week and this time again Turkey is trying to help the UK authorities to resolve this commercial issue . "
Sky News understands the Turkish company contacted the NHS last Thursday about the possibility of selling 400,000 gowns - among the most critically needed items of PPE .
A contract was agreed that day and the order placed .
Two days later Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick announced what he called a " very significant additional shipment " of protective gear would be arriving from Turkey on Sunday .
In fact , the timetable was unravelling .
By Sunday evening no shipment was forthcoming .
Initially , the problem was that the Turkish supplier had not submitted an online request to the health ministry for permission to export the gear , the officials said .
Such permission has been mandatory since last month because of the coronavirus situation .
The officials said the Turkish authorities helped the company apply for the export permit - something that was submitted and cleared on Monday .
Then it emerged that the supplier was unable to produce the expected products and the sufficient volume , according to the Turkish officials .
The Turkish ministry of health has now offered the UK to help source the outstanding items through their suppliers , the officials said .
Mr Yalcin confirmed that the British embassy in Ankara " officially approached " the Turkish ministry of foreign affairs on 19 April ( Sunday ) .
" We were immediately helpful to expedite the process and on Monday the procedure was done despite some shortcomings , " he said .
The delay has caused embarrassment for the British government , which is already under significant pressure because of a shortage of gowns and other protective gear worn by front line staff as they treat patients with coronavirus .
At least two other military planes are on standby at Brize Norton to fly to Turkey to help bring back the PPE once it becomes available .
They had both been scheduled to leave on Tuesday but that plan has been put on hold , a defence source said .

North Korean Capital Sees ‘Panic Buying’ of Food, NK News Says .
2020-04-23 04:53:26 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Consumers in North Korea ’s capital this week have been “ panic buying ” food staples , causing some store shelves to empty , according to a news service that specializes in the country .
The purchases may be due to stricter coronavirus measures on the way for Pyongyang and do n’t appear related to reports this week that leader Kim Jong Un may be seriously ill , NK News reported , citing people who live in Pyongyang and were able to communicate outside the country .
Shortages were initially limited to imported fruit and vegetables and then moved on to other goods , it said .
Radio Free Asia also reported last week that the prices of food staples in North Korea were rising sharply because of panic buying .
North Korea closed its borders in January when coronavirus cases in neighboring China began to skyrocket .
Kim ’s regime has said it has no confirmed infections from the virus but the U.S. is “ fairly certain ” it has cases because of a noticeable lack of military activity , General Robert Abrams , commander of U.S. Forces Korea , told reporters in a teleconference briefing in March .
Food shortages are common in North Korea , which is one of the world ’s poorest states .
In the 1990s , a famine killed as much as 10 % of the population , according to some estimates .
The virus could make things worse .
The United Nations ’ World Food Program warned this week that economic hardship caused by the pandemic may lead to starvation in the developing world .
The WFP , which has operations in North Korea , has said about 40 % of the population is undernourished , adding “ food insecurity and malnutrition are widespread . ”
Kim was conspicuously absent from birthday celebrations on April 15 of his grandfather and state founder Kim Il Sung .
He has not been seen since a politburo meeting on April 11 , raising speculation about his condition .
The state - run Korean Central News Agency reported that Kim on Wednesday sent a message to Syrian President Bashar al - Assad .
Letters of this sort are reported frequently .
U.S. officials said Monday they were told Kim was in critical condition after undergoing cardiovascular surgery last week and they were unsure of his current health .
Meanwhile , South Korean President Moon Jae - in ’s office said that Kim was conducting “ normal activities ” in a rural part of the country assisted by close aides and no special movements were detected .
The health of North Korea ’s leader is one of the most closely guarded secrets in the isolated state , known only to a few people in its inner circle .
U.S. President Donald Trump said Tuesday he does n’t know about Kim ’s health , adding that he might reach out to check on him .
General John Hyten , the vice chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff , said in Washington on Wednesday he could n’t confirm or deny the reports , adding “ I assume that Kim Jong - un is still in full control of the Korean nuclear forces and the Korean military forces .
I have no reason not to assume that . ”
( Updates with comments from Hyten )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Coronavirus: Brent crude hits 21-year low after rout for US prices .
2020-04-22 12:58:45 +00:00 .
Oil prices have fallen sharply after an unprecedented collapse in the value of US oil that saw costs fall into negative territory for the first time .
Brent crude , the international benchmark , fell below $ 20 a barrel on Tuesday - a drop of more than 20 % - as concerns grew that global storage space was running out .
Demand has collapsed because the disruption caused by the coronavirus crisis means there is a massive supply glut .
US benchmark West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) futures contracts for May were priced at -$40 a barrel on Monday , meaning traders were actually being paid at least $ 40 to buy a barrel of oil .
It reflected the fact that holders of the contracts could be left with a load of oil and nowhere to store it .
Analysts said Brent turned sharply lower on Tuesday as the market realised that even sharp production cuts - ordered by the so - called Opec+ group of oil - producing nations from next month - would still mean far more oil would be pumped than is needed for a saturated market .
Contracts for June delivery Brent crude hit $ 18.10 on Tuesday - the lowest level since July 1999 .
It but later recovered a little but was still below $ 20 by the time markets closed .
Lord Browne , the former BP chief executive , told Sky 's Ian King Live that given the " huge " levels of oil stockpiles he would expect prices " to remain sluggish for quite some time " .
He acknowledged that a potentially lengthy period of weakness in the market could have major geopolitical consequences as countries which are dependent on it have to " cut their cloth "
Pointing to the Maduro regime in Venezuela as one such example , he added : " There may be some real tensions around the world . "
As oil prices slumped on Tuesday , there was contagion on stock markets with the FTSE 100 closing 3 % lower and New York 's Dow Jones seeing a similar fall .
On the FTSE , UK - listed energy giants BP and Royal Dutch Shell closed more than 3 % and 4 % lower respectively .
Emma Wall , head of investment analysis at Hargreaves Lansdown , said : " Coronavirus , as with so much of the market movement over the past two months , is at the bottom of the rout .
" Without a fully - functioning economy - industry , agriculture and services - there is a reduced demand for oil , and a heightened risk of recession . "
Despite the dive in oil costs , there may be little change to prices on UK forecourts for motorists - the few using their vehicles .
The RAC said there was scope for unleaded costs to fall to levels not seen since 2015 .
The motoring group 's fuel spokesman , Simon Williams , added : " It 's right that retailers charge a fair price for fuel that reflects the price of the raw product , and in theory petrol prices could fall below £ 1 per litre if the lower wholesale costs were reflected at the pumps .
" But at the same time people are driving very few miles so they 're selling vastly lower quantities of petrol and diesel at the moment .
This means many will be at pains to trim their prices any further .
" We also continue to be concerned about smaller forecourts that provide a vital service in areas where the supermarkets do n't have a foothold as many are already finding conditions tough with sales having fallen off a cliff since lockdown .
" It would be bad news all round if these forecourts shut up shop for good . "

The Best and Worst Stocks Since the February Top .
2020-04-22 11:13:51 +00:00 .
It 's now been over two months since the SP 500 Index ( SPX ) hit its last all - time high , and to say stocks have been on a wild ride ever since is an understatement .
This week , however , I ’m focusing on individual stocks .
Below , I listed the best and worst stocks by their return since that February top , as well as a few other noteworthy measures .
Best
Worst Stocks
This first table shows all SPX stocks that have gained at least 10 % since February 19 ( as of Monday ’s close ) .
Most of these make sense given the recent coronavirus outbreak .
Pharmaceuticals are prominent on the list .
Amazon.com ( AMZN ) and Walmart ( WMT ) have seen significant gains as two of the main retailers who have continued operations via digital sales while many competitors have shut their brick and mortar doors .
Best SPX 500 Stocks Since Feb 19
More
The next table shows all stocks that have declined by at least 60 % .
Unsurprisingly , cruise companies and airlines have been hit especially hard .
Oil stocks also dominate this list , decimated not only by the coronavirus pandemic but also by last month 's price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia .
Worst SPX 500 Stocks Since Feb 19
More
Best Stocks Going by Positive Days
When you ’re holding a stock , the only thing that matters is the overall stock return .
In this table , however , I rank the SPX stocks by the percentage of positive days since the February 19 top .
Perhaps it ’s a signal of underlying strength in the stock or resilient buying power .
Or maybe I just find it interesting .
For a frame of reference , the SPX has been up 40.5 % of the days since the last all - time high .
The list below shows every stock that has been up 55 % of the days or more .
The general retailing sector has four names , which is more than any other sector on the 16 - stock list .
Notably missing , however , are Amazon and Walmart even though they ’re on the list for best returns since the market top .
SPX Stocks
Most Positive Days Since Feb 19
More
And below , I have the stocks with the fewest number of positive days since the decline .
These are stocks where only a third of the days or less have been positive since February 19 .
Nothing is too surprising in the table .
All the stocks have significantly underperformed the SPX .
SPX Stocks Least Positive Days Since Feb 19
More
Best Stocks Going by Standard Deviation
Another metric I looked at is the standard deviation of daily returns , which measures stocks that have tended to make big or small daily moves since the crisis .
The standard deviation of daily returns for the SPX has been 4.6 % .
This first table shows the most volatile stocks by this measure .
Not surprisingly , travel stocks and oil stocks are most prominent ; two sectors with the most uncertainty lately .
Stocks tend to fall fast and rise slowly , so it ’s not surprising the entire list is comprised of big - time underperformers .
Finally , here are the stocks that have been moving the least on a day - to - day basis .
Investors put off by the recent volatility who want a bit more stability could look into these stocks .

U.K. Inflation Slowed in March as Country Entered Lockdown .
2020-04-22 07:26:32 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
U.K. inflation slowed in March as the nation entered lockdown and oil prices continued to tumble .
Consumer prices rose 1.5 % from a year earlier , down from 1.7 % in February , the Office for National Statistics said Wednesday .
Downward pressure came from fuel and clothing prices .
Core inflation eased to 1.6 % .
The inflation outlook has been thrown into turmoil by the economic crisis wrought by the coronavirus pandemic , with restrictions to limit the spread of the virus forcing non - essential stores to close .
Bank of England policy maker Silvana Tenreyro said last week that it will be hard to interpret inflation data during the current crisis as price collection becomes far more difficult and spending patterns shift .
Nonetheless , inflation will probably fall below 1 % in coming months – - less than half of the central bank ’s target , she said .
Motor fuel prices dropped 4 % in March .
Clothing and footwear meanwhile declined 0.4 % in a month that normally sees prices rise as new fashion lines are introduced .
The fall was the first for the month since 2015 .
The ONS said there was an increase in the proportion of clothing items on sale to 11.9 % in March from 9.8 % in February .
In March 2019 , by contrast , the proportion fell to 8.5 % from 10.7 % .
Most of the CPI data was collected on or around March 17 , the day after Britons were urged to stay at home but before Prime Minister Boris Johnson imposed a formal lockdown on March 23 .
ONS statistician Philip Gooding said panic buying made items such as flour , eggs and pasta more difficult to price than usual .
Collectors were also more reliant on prices posted online as visits to stores were scaled back .
Economists expect inflation to come under further pressure in April as a reduction in the regulated energy price cap makes gas and electricity cheaper .
( Updates with details of price changes from sixth paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

India's virus lockdown gives world's most polluted capital clear skies, clean air .
2020-04-22 06:49:51 +00:00 .
By Neha Arora and Mayank Bhardwaj NEW DELHI ( Reuters ) - Residents of New Delhi are experiencing the longest spell of clean air on record , according to government data , as a stringent lockdown to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus drastically cuts pollution in the world 's most polluted capital .
With all transport and construction suspended , good air has emerged as one of the few positive byproducts of the lockdown to stem the virus , that has infected more than 17,000 people and claimed over 500 lives in India .
A combination of industrial , agricultural and vehicle pollution blankets New Delhi and dozens of other Indian cities with a thick grey smog for several months of the year .
Delhi was the world 's most polluted capital for the second year running in 2019 , according to IQ AirVisual , a Swiss group that gathers air quality data globally .
But during the first 25 days of the lockdown that began on March 22 , the concentration of poisonous PM2.5 particles in a cubic metre of air averaged at 44.18 , according to a Reuters analysis of government data , indicating a rare " good " rating , the safest level on the scale .
GRAPHIC : Delhi pollution levels slow during coronavirus shutdown https://graphics.reuters.com/HEALTH-CORONAVIRUS/INDIA-POLLUTION/dgkploxxvbx/coronavirus-delhi-pollution.jpg
That is sharply down from an average concentration of 81.88 , recorded between March 22 and April 15 of 2019 , according to the analysis of data gathered by the state - run Central Pollution Control Board .
IQ AirVisual said New Delhi 's average annual concentration of PM2.5 in a cubic metre of air was 98.6 in 2019 .
" Clean air has come as a boon , " said Rakesh Singh , a computer engineer who lives in Noida , a satellite city of New Delhi .
" Breathing good air will only boost my immunity against the coronavirus . "
The reading is the best on record for the city since the government began collecting detailed data .
New Delhi had few pollution monitors before 2016 , making like - for - like comparisons before then difficult .
Vehicular exhaust and dust from construction work significantly contributes to air pollution in New Delhi .
India 's sprawling capital city has nearly 10 million vehicles , more than the other three major cities - Mumbai , Chennai and Kolkata - put together .
Shutting down India 's $ 2.9 trillion economy has also significantly cut India 's fuel and power demand , helping pollution levels plummet .
As power demand plunged , 11 of the 12 coal - fired plants situated within a 300 km ( 185 - mile ) radius of New Delhi have closed their operations , said Sunil Dahiya , an analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air ( CREA ) .
Consumption of diesel is down by nearly a quarter year - on - year , he added .
But while the 20 million inhabitants of New Delhi will be breathing good air ahead of Earth Day on Wednesday , the respite from the pollution could be short - lived .
Experts warn that air quality will drop sharply once the government lifts the lockdown , that is scheduled to run until at least May 3 .
" After the lockdown , we 'll see new stimulus packages and revival plans for the economy , and my biggest fear is that the environment will be the first casualty , " said Vimlendu Jha , an environmental expert who founded the activist group Swechha .
( Reporting by Neha Arora and Mayank Bhardwaj , editing by Alasdair Pal and Raju Gopalakrishnan )

Surgery first step to post-pandemic life .
2020-04-21 22:31:58 +00:00 .
Hospitals are preparing to resume elective surgery next week after Australia 's leaders decided to ease restrictions as the rate of new coronavirus infections continues to fall .
Federal and state leaders have agreed to lift restrictions on category two and some category three procedures from April 27 .
It includes IVF , dental work , screening programs , all child surgeries , joint replacements , eye procedures , endoscopies and colonoscopies .
Prime Minister Scott Morrison says it 's an important step on Australia 's path back to a post - virus world .
" There is a road back , " he said .
The decision will be reviewed on May 11 and was made possible because of ample supply of personal protective equipment as well as a slowdown of new cases .
Supermarkets are also resuming their home delivery services in another sign that things are slowly returning to normal .
However , RBA government Philip Lowe has warned nearly 850,000 sacked Australian workers are likely to remain unemployed for years after the pandemic subsides .
The Reserve Bank predicts Australia 's economy will contract by 10 per cent by the middle of the year before a long , slow recovery from the coronavirus crisis .
There have been 74 coronavirus deaths across the nation , as of Wednesday morning .
Nearly 4700 people have recovered out of more than 6600 cases detected .
Health Minister Greg Hunt says the growth rate has been at less than one per cent for nine consecutive days .
" This is a collective national achievement but every Australian has been contributing and I want to say thank you for what people have done .
You have made this happen , " he said .
Students in some states will be heading back to classrooms in another step towards the gradual return to normal life .
NSW students will return one day a week from May 11 , while South Australian schools will be back to normal from Monday .
West Australian authorities are strongly urging year 11 and 12 students to head back to campus .
Meanwhile , Mr Morrison says a tracing app will be released soon to beef up efforts to track down the contacts of people with the virus .
The prime minister says the Commonwealth wo n't have access to the data , but it will be released by individuals to state - based virus tracers .
The voluntary app uses Bluetooth connections to track down people who have come in contact with others carrying the deadly disease .
The Morrison government is resisting pressure to save Virgin Australia from collapse as the company enters voluntary administration .
But Nationals senator Matt Canavan has called for government intervention to save the troubled airline , putting him at odds with coalition leaders .

Netflix adds 15.7 million global users in Q1 2020 amid coronavirus pandemic .
2020-04-21 21:56:02 +00:00 .
Netflix ( NFLX ) reported its Q1 earnings after the closing bell on Tuesday , adding 15.7 million global users amid stay - at - home orders related to the novel coronavirus pandemic — a 23 % jump since the same quarter last year .
The company ’s stock was up more than 4 % in after - hours trading .
Here ’s how the company performed in the quarter , and how many more people are using the service during the lockdowns .
Global streaming net paid subscriber additions : 15.77 million vs. 7 million forecasted Revenue : $ 5.7 billion vs. $ 5.7 billion expected Earnings per share : $ 1.57 vs. $ 1.64 expected Netflix was one of the few companies not to pull its earnings guidance following the coronavirus outbreak , and the resulting collapse in global economic activity stemming from widespread lockdown orders .
The reason ?
With people stuck in their homes — unable to participate in any form of outdoor entertainment — consumers are turning to streaming video platforms like Netflix to stave off boredom and , in households with homebound children , keep their kids entertained .
02 April 2020 , Berlin : A young man watches series at the provider " Netflix " .
To prevent infection with the corona virus , many people spend their free time at home .
Photo :
Britta Pedersen / dpa - Zentralbild / dpa ( Photo by Britta Pedersen / picture alliance via Getty Images )
More
So if Netflix added so many new subscribers , why did n’t it blow out its revenue and EPS expectations ?
According to the company , the impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar versus other foreign currencies , and a $ 218 million charge for pausing productions , along with a hardship fund commitment , put a dent in the service ’s bottom line .
Will new subscribers stick around ?
While Netflix may have added millions of subscribers in Q1 , the question remains : What happens when we are able to go outside again ?
Will the company be able to hold on to those new subscribers , or will they simply ditch the service once other entertainment options are available again ?
According to Bank of America analyst Nat Schindler , the new users are likely to become permanent subscribers to the service .
“ We anticipate the step - up will result in a permanent increase in penetration for Netflix 's subscriber model and see its low price - point and staple nature supporting healthy fundamentals performance in a recession , even after stay - home orders are lifted , ” he said , before the earnings announcement .
Netflix subscriptions start at $ 8.99 per month , giving you the ability to stream to one TV at standard definition .
A standard plan costs $ 12.99 and gets you the ability to stream to two televisions at HD resolutions .
A $ 15.99 premium plan lets you stream to four TVs at once in 4 K resolutions .
Disney+ , meanwhile , costs $ 6.99 per month , while Amazon ’s Prime video costs $ 8.99 per month , but is free with a $ 120 yearly Prime subscription .
Netflix , however , is going to have to contend with a period in the near future when it does n’t have any new shows .
That ’s because TV and movie production around the world has more or less stalled .
As a result , companies like Netflix may not have any new shows in the later half of the year .
But that is n’t going to be any different for the company ’s biggest competitors .
More from Dan :
Got a tip ?
Email Daniel Howley at danielphowley@protonmail.com or dhowley@yahoofinance.com , and follow him on Twitter at @DanielHowley .
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , SmartNews , LinkedIn , YouTube , and reddit

UK's COVID-19 death toll is far higher than daily figure, data suggests .
2020-04-21 20:33:54 +00:00 .
By Andy Bruce LONDON ( Reuters ) -
The true extent of Britain 's COVID-19 death toll was more than 40 % higher than the government 's daily figures indicated as of April 10 , according to data that put the country on track to become among the worst - hit in Europe .
The Office for National Statistics said it recorded 13,121 deaths by April 10 in England and Wales , which account for the vast majority of Britain 's population , compared with 9,288 in the government 's daily toll for those who died in hospital .
The ONS figures include deaths in care homes and hospices as well as in hospitals .
Britain , which scientists say is probably now around the peak of the outbreak , has reported the world 's fifth - highest national death toll from COVID-19 , the respiratory disease caused by the novel coronavirus .
The global death toll from COVID-19 now stands at around 170,000 .
The latest hospital death data show 16,509 people with COVID-19 had died across the United Kingdom as of this Sunday .
If these figures underestimate the overall death toll by a similar amount , then the true human cost for the United Kingdom as a whole could be above 23,000 based on the latest data - making it the second worst hit in Europe after Italy .
However , the difference between the initial daily figures published by the government and the later ONS data has narrowed with each week that passes , and may have reduced further by the time the ONS reports on the latest toll .
Still , Tuesday 's figures are likely to raise further questions about Britain 's decision to impose its lockdown of society at a later date than European peers , many of which have had less severe outbreaks of the novel coronavirus .
Prime Minister Boris Johnson is still on sick leave after falling ill with COVID-19 as his ministers attempt to tackle urgent issues such as a shortage of personal protective equipment for health workers .
DEADLIEST WEEK
Including all deaths , 18,516 people died in England and Wales during the seven days to April 10 - almost 8,000 more than normal for the time of year and marking the deadliest week since a severe flu outbreak more than 20 years ago .
Martin Hibberd , professor of emerging infectious disease at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine , said the figures marked a " rapid " increase .
" With limited testing being carried out , it may be that all of the 7,996 excess deaths were directly due to COVID-19 , " Hibberd said .
"
( But ) it is also likely that at least some of these were indirectly involved , such as through inability to access typical medical care for other conditions because of COVID-19 activities . " COVID-19 was mentioned in a third of all death certificates issued in England and Wales in the week to April 19 .
In London , more than half of the death certificates issued that week mentioned COVID-19 .
The ONS figures are based on mentions of COVID-19 on death certificates , whether or not the deceased had tested positive for coronavirus .
" In care homes settings there are now double the number of deaths from all causes ... than there were two weeks previously , " ONS statistician Nick Stripe told the BBC .
" About 17 % of those deaths mention COVID on the death certificate . "

Japan waiting for Golden Week to decide on extending coronavirus emergency: sources .
2020-04-21 10:32:00 +00:00 .
By Yoshifumi Takemoto
TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Japan will decide during its Golden Week holiday between April 29 and May 6 whether to extend its month - long state of emergency to fight a widening coronavirus outbreak , government and ruling party sources told Reuters on Tuesday .
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced the state of emergency , which gives governors in hard - hit prefectures more clout to ask residents to stay home and businesses to close , on April 7 for seven prefectures including Tokyo and Osaka , western Japan .
There are , however , no penalties for refusing those requests .
Abe , who has faced criticism for his response to the outbreak , expanded the emergency nationwide on April 16 to reduce travel during the Golden Week holidays , when many Japanese usually visit their hometowns or take other trips .
Tokyo , which has emerged as Japan 's coronavirus epicentre , confirmed 123 new cases on Tuesday , bringing its total to 3,307 , public broadcaster NHK said .
Japan as a whole has more than 11,000 confirmed cases and 265 deaths , NHK reported .
The World Health Organization said on Tuesday it was concerned about Japan 's rising number of cases , although the country was not yet seeing a large - scale community outbreak .
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a news conference that the government would consult experts before May 6 for their views , a prerequisite to extending the emergency .
The number of confirmed cases , how long it is taking to double that number and the percentage of cases for which the route of infection can not be traced , which has been rising , would all be taken into consideration , said Shigeru Omi , head of the expert advisory panel .
The government wants to wait until after passage of an extra budget to decide whether to extend the emergency , since an extension would spark calls for even more spending to cushion the impact of the outbreak and business shutdowns , the sources said .
Debate on the budget is expected to begin on April 27 .
" The budget will probably pass on April 30 or May 1 , " a ruling party source said .
" If possible , it 's better to decide on an extension at the same time . "
Japan on Monday boosted its stimulus package to a record $ 1.1 trillion to expand cash payouts to residents , and compiled a record 25.7 trillion yen extra budget for the fiscal year from April 1 to help fund the package .
( Writing by Linda Sieg ;
Editing by Simon Cameron - Moore )

Coronavirus deaths 41% higher than official figures - ONS .
2020-04-21 10:05:07 +00:00 .
Coronavirus - related deaths were 41 % higher in England and Wales than the government 's official figures in the week to 10 April .
The new figures , revealed in an Office for National Statistics report , take into account deaths outside of hospitals .
Overall , 13,121 deaths involving COVID-19 have occurred in England and Wales up to 10 April , and registered up to 18 April , which is 41 % higher than the 9,288 people who died in UK hospitals during the same period reported by the Department of Health .
The figures have been labelled " sad and shocking " , with Labour saying they were " only scratching the surface of the emerging crisis in social care " .
The latest ONS weekly total shows that there were 1,662 deaths involving COVID-19 in England and Wales registered up to 10 April that happened outside of hospital .
Of the deaths outside hospitals 1,043 happened in care homes , up from 217 the week before .
A further 466 occurred in private homes , 87 in hospices , 21 in other communal establishments and 45 elsewhere .
According to the ONS , the numbers are based on where the coronavirus is mentioned anywhere on the death certificate , including in combination with other health conditions .
The previous weekly figures , up to 3 April , showed that a total of 406 registered deaths involving COVID-19 happened outside of hospitals , around 10 % of the total .
A total of 217 were registered in care homes , 33 in hospices , 136 in private homes , three in other communal establishments and 17 elsewhere .
This week 's figures show that the proportion of deaths outside of hospitals now stands at 16 % , with 83.9 % ( 8,673 ) occurring in hospitals .
According to the ONS , there were 12,516 deaths involving the coronavirus in England up to 10 April ( and which were registered up to 18 April ) .
NHS England reported 10,260 deaths in hospitals in England for the same period , with the ONS total 22 % higher .
This disparity is because the ONS statistics include all mentions of COVID-19 on a death certificate and deaths in the community , while NHS England only include deaths in hospitals where a patient has been tested for the virus .
Labour 's shadow social care minister Liz Kendall said the figures demonstrate the " terrible toll " that the virus is having on elderly and disabled people in care homes .
" Yet these awful figures are only scratching the surface of the emerging crisis in social care , because they are already 11 days out of date , " she said .
" The government must now publish daily figures of COVID-19 deaths outside hospital , including in care homes , so we know the true scale of the problem .
" This is essential to tackling the spread of the virus , ensuing social care has the resources it needs and getting vital PPE and testing to care workers on the frontline . "
Cllr Ian Hudspeth , chairman of the Local Government Association 's Community Wellbeing Board , described the latest statistics as " sad and shocking " .
He said they " highlight just what a severe challenge we face in care homes and other community settings " .
Cllr Hudspeth added : " Council social care staff and care homes need urgent access to reliable and ongoing supplies of quality PPE [ personal protective equipment ] , increased rapid and comprehensive testing and greater support with staffing and other equipment , on an equal footing with the NHS .
" Data on all deaths from COVID-19 needs to be published promptly and accurately , so we can have full confidence and transparency in these figures as part of our plan to defeat this deadly virus . "
More follows ...

Envision Healthcare to Consider Bankruptcy Filing .
2020-04-20 21:16:43 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Envision Healthcare Corp. has hired restructuring advisers and is contemplating a bankruptcy filing after the Covid-19 pandemic halted elective surgeries and left the company struggling to manage the $ 7 billion of debt from its 2018 leveraged buyout .
The KKR Co.-backed company hired law firms
Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton
Garrison LLP and Kirkland
Ellis LLP to advise on its restructuring options , including a potential Chapter 11 filing , according to people with knowledge of the matter .
Investment bank Houlihan Lokey Inc. was also tapped for advice , the people said .
The Nashville , Tennessee - based company , one of the largest physician staffing firms in the U.S. , has already been holding back pay for doctors , and it has struggled to convince its bondholders to take a haircut in exchange for a new loan that would trim its debt load .
The situation remains fluid and plans could change , depending on market conditions and the length of the shutdown of the company ’s businesses , said the people , who asked not to be identified because the discussions are private .
Representatives for Envision , KKR and Houlihan declined to comment , while spokespeople for Kirkland and Paul Weiss did n’t immediately comment .
Lenders Organize Envision ’s lenders have also engaged advisers of their own to begin talks with the company , the people said .
Certain holders of its term loans are working with lawyers at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer
Feld LLP and investment bank Guggenheim Securities , they said .
A representative for Guggenheim declined to comment while Akin Gump did n’t immediately respond to requests for comment .
The pandemic has forced patients to avoid hospitals and forgo elective surgeries , which are more lucrative for health - care providers than emergency services typically related to treatment for Covid-19 .
In just two weeks , Envision ’s business shrank by 65 % to 75 % at its 168 open ambulatory surgical centers , compared with the same period last year , Bloomberg reported last month .
Envision said at the time that it may need additional financing if conditions worsen .
It reported $ 650 million in cash on its balance sheet at the end of March , $ 175 million of which is restricted from corporate use .
Debt Proposal
The company sought to ease its debt load with a proposal for bondholders to swap $ 1.2 billion of unsecured notes at a discount for a new term loan with higher priority and an earlier due date .
But just $ 198 million of those holders have agreed to the swap .
Creditors have until April 30 to decide whether to participate in the deal .
Hospitals and doctors groups have been pushing to get emergency government funds from the CARES Act while also trying to persuade lawmakers to approve more aid .
But it remains unclear whether private equity - backed companies like Envision will receive any of those funds to offset losses .
KKR agreed to buy Envision in June 2018 in a deal that valued the company at $ 9.9 billion including debt .
The firm planned to invest as much as $ 3.5 billion of equity in the transaction , a regulatory filing shows .
The health - care sector , long seen as a haven during economic downturns , has attracted billions of dollars of private equity investment in recent years .
Envision was built through a series of acquisitions , culminating in a tie - up with AmSurg , a large surgery center and physician staffing group , in 2016 .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

France to shun discrimination by age in lockdown exit .
2020-04-20 20:43:15 +00:00 .
By Reuters Staff PARIS ( Reuters ) - France will look to avoid setting different rules for older people and other forms of discrimination once the government starts easing its coronavirus confinement measures , the French President 's office said .
France 's lockdown to combat the outbreak , which like in Spain , Italy and many other European countries includes restrictions on store openings and people 's movements , will remain in place until at least May 11 , President Emmanuel Macron said earlier this week .
After that , schools and shops are set to reopen , though it is still unclear at what speed France will allow some businesses like hotels or cafes to restart , and whether it plans to lift home confinement recommendations for everyone at the same time .
Speculation had grown in recent days over whether older people , who are considered more vulnerable to the deadly virus , would be told to stay at home for longer .
Comments this week in France 's Senate by Professor Jean - François Delfraissy - who heads the scientific council advising the government on the epidemic - in particular sparked a backlash , after he said that for people aged 65 or 70 , the confinement order could continue .
" The President has followed the growing debate about the situation for elderly citizens after May 11 , " the Elysee palace said in comments sent to Reuters on Saturday .
" He does not want there to be any discrimination among citizens after May 11 in the context of a gradual easing of confinement measures , and will appeal to people 's individual responsibility . "
France 's registered death toll from coronavirus infections neared 19,000 on Friday , but most data provided further indications that the spread of the disease was slowing after the one - month - old national lockdown .

Bolsonaro Mixes With Crowds Again in Push to Reopen Economy .
2020-04-20 20:28:09 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- President Jair Bolsonaro escalated his campaign for the reopening of the Brazilian economy after he attended a protest against restrictive measures imposed by state governors to slow the coronavirus ’ spread .
The Brasilia demonstration on Sunday , similar to others that took place in several Brazilian cities the same day , was organized by his more radical supporters -- some of whom demanded a military intervention in Congress and the Supreme Court , institutions that have mostly sided with the governors .
“ We do n’t want to negotiate anything , ” Bolsonaro said in an improvised speech delivered from a flatbed truck , according to videos posted on social media .
“ We want action for Brazil . ”
He had previously shared on Twitter a newspaper report about the growing number of Brazilians unable to pay their bills , saying it ’s not difficult to guess what comes next if lockdown measures remain in place .
The far - right president , worried about the impact of a looming recession in Latin America ’s largest economy , has defied medical guidance on social distancing , repeatedly mingling with the population and greeting supporters .
He has urged Brazilians to resume work even as deaths from Covid-19 , which he has called “ just a little flu , ” near 2,500 .
Last week , he fired his health minister after repeatedly clashing with him over the handling of the pandemic .
Read More : As Covid-19 Reaches the Amazon , Indigenous People Are at
Risk
Authoritarianism
When leaving his official residence early on Monday , Bolsonaro said that he hopes this is the last week of lockdowns .
Meanwhile , health officials say Brazil is probably still weeks away from the peak in Covid-19 cases .
The state of Sao Paulo , the epicenter of infections in Brazil , has extended quarantine orders until May 10 .
Bolsonaro also said Brazil is a democracy , and that he respects the constitution as well as bodies such as Congress and the Supreme Court .
“ My role is to preserve the people ’s liberty without chaos , ” he said .
Still , his attendance in a demonstration where participants called for the shutdown of democratic institutions caused outrage among political leaders and members of the top court .
“ The whole world is united against the coronavirus , ” Lower House Speaker Rodrigo Maia , one of the main targets of Bolsonaro and his supporters , said in a Twitter post .
“ In Brazil , we have to fight against the coronavirus and the virus of authoritarianism .
It ’s a lot of work , but we ’ll win .
( Updates with new Bolsonaro remarks starting in 6th paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

France reaches 'painful' landmark of 20,000 virus dead .
2020-04-20 19:03:37 +00:00 .
France on Monday announced it had become the fourth country worldwide to register over 20,000 deaths from the novel coronavirus , after recording 547 new fatalities in the epidemic .
" Tonight , our country has passed a barrier that is symbolic and particularly painful , " top health official Jerome Salomon told reporters .
He announced that the country 's total death toll was 20,265 , while welcoming new falls in the numbers in hospital and intensive care .
Salomon noted that the coronavirus death toll was now was well above the 14,000 people who died in France 's worst recent flu epidemic and even topped the 19,000 killed by the 2003 heatwave .
France is the fourth country to record more than 20,000 deaths , following the United States -- by far the worst affected worldwide -- Italy and Spain .
Its death toll includes 12,513 people who died in hospital and 7,752 people who lost their lives in old people 's homes and other nursing homes .
But Salomon also welcomed data indicating that a person with COVID-19 in France was now infecting on average fewer than one other person , as opposed to three before the country went into lockdown more than a month ago .
" This is how we will manage to put the brakes on the epidemic , " he said .
The number of people in intensive care infected with COVID-19 fell for the 12th day in a row , by 61 patients to 5,863 .
" The fall ... is being confirmed but it remains very slight , " said Salomon .
Meanwhile the number of patients in hospital fell by 26 -- the sixth successive daily decrease -- to 30,584 .
- ' Collective immunity low ' - France has been in lockdown since March 17 in a bid to slow the spread of the epidemic .
But President Emmanuel Macron announced last week that the lockdown could begin to be eased from May 11 .
Schools could gradually reopen then but cafes , cinemas and cultural venues would remain closed , and there could be no summer festivals until mid - July at the earliest .
Unlike some European countries , France has been giving daily tolls of deaths in nursing homes .
In one old people 's home in Mars - la - Tour in the northeastern Moselle region , 22 of 51 residents out died from COVID-19 over the last two weeks , its director said .
In a press conference on Sunday , Prime Minister Edouard Philippe warned it would take a long time to defeat the epidemic , emphasising the initial easing would only be partial .
" Our life from May 11 will not be like our life before , not immediately , and probably not for a long time , " he said .
Salomon said data indicated less than 10 percent of the population in France had been infected with the virus , noting this meant there was going to be no herd immunity in the country on May 11 .
" The levels of immunity are probably higher in the areas that have been worst affected , " he said .
" The collective immunity in France is low , as many other countries are indicating as well . "
France has 114,657 confirmed cases , but officials say the real figure is much higher due to a lack of testing .
France became the fourth country to record more than 20,000 official deaths , following the US , Italy and Spain

Traders play 'hot potato' with U.S. oil contract as it crashes 50% .
2020-04-20 17:07:23 +00:00 .
By David Gaffen ( Reuters ) - Energy traders bailed out of the expiring May U.S. oil futures contract in a frenzy on Monday , as the contract dropped by more than 50 % to less than $ 8 a barrel and opening the widest gap ever between it and the next contract with storage rapidly filling .
That yawning gap has opened because a glut of oil is heading towards the United States while demand has dropped by 30 % due to the coronavirus pandemic .
While oil - producing nations have agreed to cut output and major global oil companies are also trimming production , those cuts will not come quickly enough to avoid a massive clog in the next couple of weeks .
As a result , futures traders , who would normally be able to shift from the expiring contract to the next , are finding few buyers for the expiring May contract to take delivery of barrels .
As more traders dump the May contract , it has crashed , lately trading at $ 8 a barrel .
" The cavalry ( OPEC - plus cuts ) wo n’t arrive in time to save this oil market .
This may prove to be one of the worst deliveries in history .
Nobody wants or is in need of oil right now , " said Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago .
As of 12:30 p.m. ET ( 1630 GMT ) , the May contract was down $ 10.61 at $ 7.66 a barrel , or 56 % .
Notably , just 107,000 contracts had changed hands .
By contrast , the June contract was down $ 2.40 , or 9.6 % , to $ 22.62 a barrel , but had more than 713,000 contracts traded .
( GRAPHIC : Oil contract gap : https://fingfx.thomsonreuters.com/gfx/editorcharts/xklpyylgpgd/index.html )
When a futures contract expires , traders must decide whether to take delivery or roll their positions into an upcoming contract .
Usually this process is relatively uncomplicated , but the May contract 's decline reflects worries that too much supply could hit the markets , with shipments out of OPEC nations like Saudi Arabia booked in March set to cause a glut .
The world 's major oil producers agreed to cut production by 9.7 million bpd in an attempt to get world supply under control as demand slumps , but those cuts do not begin until May. Saudi Arabia is ramping up deliveries of oil , including big shipments to the United States .
Meanwhile , available storage space is dropping fast at the Cushing , Oklahoma hub , where physical delivery of U.S. oil barrels bought in the futures market takes place .
Four weeks ago , the storage hub was half full - now it is 69 % full , according to U.S. Energy Department data .
Crude stockpiles at Cushing rose 9 % in the week to April 17 , totaling around 61 million barrels , market analysts said , citing a Monday report from Genscape .
" It ’s clear that Cushing is going to fill and it will stay full for the next several months , " said Andy Lipow of Lipow Oil Associates .
" Because producers have been lagging in their production cuts we ’re seeing an overwhelming amount of crude oil looking for a place to go around the world . "
Worldwide oil consumption is roughly 100 million barrels a day , and supply generally stays in line with that .
But consumption is down about 30 % globally , and the cuts so far are far less .
U.S. exchange - traded funds are also playing a role in the action , analysts said .
The U.S. Oil Fund LP , the largest crude oil ETF , said on Thursday that it would start moving some of its assets into later - dated contracts earlier in the life of the monthly contract .
( Reporting by David Gaffen ;
Editing by Nick Zieminski , David Gregorio and Lisa Shumaker )

Police confront 'covidiots' having sit-down meal in street and weightlifting in park .
2020-04-20 16:52:43 +00:00 .
Police have blasted “ covidiots ” flouting UK lockdown rules during the coronavirus epidemic .
West Midlands Police released bodycam footage of officers confronting a family caught tucking into a huge feast on their driveway , while elsewhere two friends were filmed weightlifting and boxing in a park .
One brazen family were approached on their driveway in Birmingham as they tucked into a feast just inches from a public footpath on Good Friday ( April 10 ) .
A police patrol pulled up outside the mid - terraced home and found the family eating kebabs and chips around dining tables set out especially .
Police sent this family inside after they were found eating a meal next to a public pathway on Good Friday .
( SWNS )
More
A family feast flouts lockdown in Birmingham ( SWNS )
More Story continues
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of COVID-19 cases in your local area 6 charts and maps that explain how coronavirus is spreading An officer asks the group : “ What ’s going on , guys ?
You need to put all this away .
“ Everyone is meant to be in their houses .
What ’s going on here then ? ”
A man wearing shorts and T - shirt immediately apologised , before telling the officers : “ I will put this in the house . ”
In another clip , a female officer approaches two men who had taken a barbell , weights and boxing gloves into a park .
This man was caught sparring in a park with a friend after going there with a bag full of gym equipment .
( SWNS )
More
She tells them : “ Guys , I know you ’ve come out to exercise
but if you ’ve got equipment like you ’ve got with you , you can do that at home – you do n’t need to be in the park to do it . ”
A total of 14,829 deaths as a result of coronavirus had been recorded in Britain by Monday afternoon .
In another example of covidiots breaking lockdown rules , three young men met to drink alcohol outside a Tesco supermarket in Birmingham city centre .
A male officer says : “ Do n’t sit down mate , whatever you do , do n’t sit down , put your booze away .
Get home .
“ I ’m guessing you know what the strong advice is ?
It ’s law . ”
More than 1,429 people have died from COVID-19 in the West Midlands so far , making it the worst - hit area outside of London .
Police confront ' covidiots ' flouting lockdown laws ( SWNS )
More West Midlands Police say patrols have been targeting people breaking the rules after receiving tip - offs from members of the public online .
A spokesperson said : “ Where we ’ve had reports online of people not following the rules , we ’ve used this information to target our patrols . ”
The force ’s Sgt Dave Taylor said : “ To police this , which is something we ’ve never had to do before , we ’re trying to use a commonsense approach with people . ”
On Monday , Oxford University professor Carl Heneghan suggested that long - term lockdown could do more damage than coronavirus itself .
Coronavirus : what happened today

Chase Bank shuffled Paycheck Protection Program small business applications, lawsuit says .
2020-04-20 12:55:17 +00:00 .
Two companies in California filed a class - action lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase bank alleging unfair business practices toward some small businesses that applied for coronavirus - related loans under the government 's Paycheck Protection Program .
In the suit filed on Sunday , a cybersecurity firm and event planning company accused Chase Bank of prioritizing small business borrowers who were seeking larger loan amounts rather than processing the government - sponsored loan applications on a first - come , first - serve basis as advertised .
The move meant that Chase would collect larger processing fees – nearly $ 6 billion in total – by frontloading the queue with businesses seeking higher loans , according to the lawsuit .
The businesses seeking lower loans were deprioritized , so many did n't get the aid they were entitled to , the lawsuit filed on behalf of small businesses said .
The loans were a part of a $ 349 billion emergency small business lending program meant to keep businesses afloat and staffers employed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic .
Retail : Neiman Marcus could file for bankruptcy as early as this week , report says
Unbanked : Walmart 's MoneyCard will let you direct deposit your coronavirus stimulus check
The government - backed forgivable loan plan kicked off on April 3 and ran out of money less than two weeks later on April 16 .
" Chase concealed from the public that it was reshuffling the PPP applications it received and prioritizing the applications that would make the bank the most money , " the lawsuit said .
The lawsuit follows similar allegations against Wells Fargo .
Chase bank was n't immediately available for comment .
Chase updated a statement to small business customers on its website on April 19 , the day the lawsuit in California was filed .
" I also understand that many of you are frustrated that you applied early in the process , but that SBA funding ran out before you could receive a loan , " said Jennifer Roberts , CEO of Chase Business Banking .
" We want you to know that we are working to make sure as many of our Business Banking customers receive loans as possible . "
Eighty percent of PPP loans processed through Chase went to businesses with less than $ 5 million in revenue .
About half went to small businesses with less than $ 100,000 , the bank said .
The proof of Chase prioritizing larger borrowers lies in numbers provided by the Small Business Administration , the lawsuit alleges .
In the last three days , before the PPP loan money ran out , banks allegedly processed loan applications for $ 150,000 and under at twice the rate of larger loans .
This would suggest that banks prioritized applications for the largest loans , otherwise " the percentage change of applications submitted in the last three days of the program would be consistent among all application types , " the plaintiffs claim .
Follow Dalvin Brown on Twitter : @Dalvin_Brown .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Small businesses sue Chase Bank over handling of stimulus

Japan exports slump as coronavirus hits U.S., Chinese demand .
2020-04-20 02:47:34 +00:00 .
By Tetsushi Kajimoto TOKYO ( Reuters ) - Japan 's exports slumped the most in nearly four years in March as U.S.-bound shipments , including cars , fell at the fastest rate since 2011 , highlighting the damage the coronavirus pandemic has inflicted on global trade .
Monday 's bleak data underscored the challenges Prime Minister Shinzo Abe 's government faces in dealing with a collapse in activity that is expected to send the global economy into its deepest slump since the Great Depression of the 1930s .
After a jump in virus cases , Abe expanded a state of emergency last week to include the entire country , which gave authorities more power to push people to stay home and businesses to close .
Japan has reported more than 10,000 infections and over 200 deaths .
Adding to worries the world 's third - largest economy is sliding into recession , Ministry of Finance data showed Japanese exports fell 11.7 % in the year to March , compared with a 10.1 % decrease expected by economists in a Reuters poll .
That followed a 1 % fall in February and marked the biggest decline since July 2016 , as shipments to Japan 's major export destinations from China , the United States to Europe were all battered .
" The impact is likely to continue in April and onwards , which will prevent economic activity from normalising , " said Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute .
" That will keep trade volume constricted globally . "
Imports fell 5.0 % in the year to March , versus the median estimate for a 9.8 % decline , after the prior month 's 13.9 % drop , bringing the trade balance to a surplus of 4.9 billion yen ( $ 45.47 million ) .
By region , exports to China , Japan 's largest trading partner , fell 8.7 % in the year to March , reflecting a slump in items such as car parts , organic compounds and chip - making machinery .
China 's economy shrank for the first time on record in the first quarter as the virus hit production and spending hard .
But while China is restarting its economic engines after bringing the outbreak under control , demand has plunged in many other countries after they imposed lockdowns to contain the pandemic .
U.S.-bound shipments , another key market for Japanese goods such as cars and electronics , fell 16.5 % year - on - year in March , the biggest decline since April 2011 , weighed by drops in demand for cars , airplane motors and construction and mining machinery .
Shipments to Asia , which account for more than half of Japanese exports , declined 9.4 % , and exports to the European Union fell 11.1 % , due to the globally spreading new virus .
The global economy is expected to shrink 3.0 % in 2020 in a collapse of activity that would mark the steepest downturn since the 1930s , the International Monetary Fund said last week .
The pandemic has now infected more than 2.33 million and killed about 160,000 people globally .
( Reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto ;
Editing by Sam Holmes )

Oil Drops to 21-Year Low With Storage Filling as Demand Shrivels .
2020-04-20 01:59:04 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Oil extended its slide , falling to the lowest in more than two decades , on concern the world is rapidly running out of places to store crude after output cuts proved insufficient to cope with plunging demand .
Futures in New York fell 16 % to around $ 15 a barrel after losing almost a fifth of their value last week as the deal by OPEC+ and other producers failed to counter the loss of demand from a crippled global economy .
The current May contract expires Tuesday , however , with the more active June futures only down by less than half as much .
Near - term prices for West Texas Intermediate , the U.S. benchmark , are trading at huge discounts to later - dated contracts on concern the storage hub of Cushing , Oklahoma , will fill to capacity .
That has seen prices disconnect from Brent futures in London .
Buyers in Texas are offering as little as $ 2 a barrel for some oil streams , raising the possibility that American producers may soon have to pay customers to take crude off their hands .
The 9.7 million barrels a day of production cuts agreed by OPEC+ are paling in comparison against this backdrop .
China reported its first economic contraction in decades on Friday , an indicator of what ’s to come in Europe and North America , which have yet to emerge from coronavirus - driven lockdowns .
There were some signs of optimism , however , as death rates eased in New York and some of the hardest - hit European countries .
“ The current prices show that the OPEC+ cuts proved to be a blip , with oil prices at the mercy of the virus once again , ” said Vandana Hari , founder of Vanda Insights in Singapore .
“ Until we approach a lifting of the lockdowns in the U.S , , oil may drift lower or remain rangebound around current levels . ”
WTI for May delivery fell 16 % to $ 15.37 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange as of 9:16 a.m. in Singapore after plummeting 20 % last week .
It dropped to as low as $ 14.47 , the weakest since March 1999 .
The June contact declined 6.4 % to $ 23.42 .
Brent for June delivery fell 1.6 % to $ 27.63 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange after losing 10.8 % last week .
“ Concern continues to mount that storage facilities in the U.S. will run out of capacity , ” with stockpiles at Cushing rising almost 50 % since the start of March , Australia
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a note .
“ We hold some hope for a recovery later this year . ”
The price collapse is reverberating across the oil industry .
Crude explorers shut down 13 % of the U.S. drilling fleet last week as the swelling worldwide glut of crude spurred drastic cost - cutting and project cancellations among drillers .
Meanwhile , in the Asian oil hub of Singapore , Hin Leong Trading ( Pte ) Ltd. filed for court protection from creditors amid revelations it hid around $ 800 million in losses racked up in futures trading .
“ The output cut that we ’ve seen , or supposed to see coming , is n’t sufficient to cover the 25 million to 30 million barrels of daily demand that ’s being destroyed by Covid-19 , ” said David Lennox , resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney .
“ We have to see a peak for Covid-19 globally to get a clearer picture of how much demand will be destroyed . ”
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Reese Witherspoon says 2013 arrest was 'embarrassing and dumb' .
2020-04-20 01:23:55 +00:00 .
Reese Witherspoon is n't brushing her mistakes under the rug , as she 's revisited her 2013 arrest with honesty by describing it as an " embarrassing and dumb " moment for her .
The Legally Blonde star and her husband Jim Toth were pulled over on suspicion of driving under the influence seven years ago .
Footage of Witherspoon not co - operating with the police by resisting orders then went viral .
Witherspoon apologised in the weeks after the event but has now reflected on the moment again in Jameela Jamil 's I Weigh podcast .
Read more : Sharon Osbourne reckons there ’s ‘ nothing wrong ’ with plastic surgery
Jamil said the way the star has " shamed [ her]self " at the time was " refreshing " .
“ But , I did something really stupid , ” Witherspoon retorted .
Reese Witherspoon headshot ( l ) , actress , and husband , James Toth ( r ) , combination photo from City of Atlanta Department of Corrections on texture , partial graphic
More
"
It was so embarrassing and dumb .
But , you know what — turns out I breathe air .
I bleed the same way .
I make dumb decisions .
I make great decisions .
" I ’m just a human being . ”
Witherspoon plead no contest to the charge of obstruction of a person and was required to pay a fine of $ 313 , while Toth plead guilty to a first offence for driving under the influence , E ! reported at the time .
Meanwhile , Witherspoon 's fashion line Draper James has recently found itself in a difficult situation due to a giveaway that went awry .
Reese Witherspoon attends the Draper James Dallas store opening on September 28 , 2016 in Dallas , Texas .
( Photo by Gary Miller / Getty Images for Draper James )
More
The label wanted to show appreciation for US teachers during the coronavirus pandemic by giving them a free dress , however , less than one percent of applicants received one .
The initial Instagram post did include the caveat " while supplies last " , but had just 250 dresses while almost 1 million applied .
Draper James then attempted to explain it was a raffle instead of a giveaway .
A spokesperson said they had " moved too quickly " and did n't anticipate the demand .

Coronavirus: Trump says people should say 'thank you very much' for virus response despite death toll hitting 40,000 .
2020-04-20 00:32:21 +00:00 .
President Donald Trump has said Americans should say “ thank you very much ” for his coronavirus response on the same day the death toll tips 40,000 people .
The president once was again asked about why he delayed responding to the spreading novel virus throughout the month of February during his daily press briefing , and he once again went on the offence .
“ I believe there were no deaths when I closed up the country , ” Mr Trump said . ”
And you should say thank you very much . ”
The one aspect of the Trump administration ’s response the president has consistently boasted was his enactment of China travel ban at the end of January .
But the travel ban was only against specific foreign nationals and still allowed Americans to travel back to the US .
After the ban was enacted , more than 40,000 Americans came back into the country and potentially spread the virus , the New York Times reported .
Health experts , including Dr Anthony Fauci , have said shutting down the country quicker could ’ve prevented more infections and deaths .
On Sunday , the US death toll surpassed 40,000 people with a total of 40,461 , according to Johns Hopkins University .
Mr Trump was asked if now was really the time to brag about his efforts given how severely the novel virus has impacted American lives .
“ I am standing up for the men and women who have done such a great job , not me , ” he claimed .
" If we did n't do what we did ... the 40,000 people could be a million . "
The Centres for Disease Control and Prevention , along with the Trump administration , enacted its social distancing measures on 16 March that would later extend until 30 April .
A majority of state governors also enacted stay - at - home orders to curb the spread of Covid-19 .
The president was correct that these measures helped stop certain projections from experts to be reached .
But it has remained unclear where the virus would be at in the country had the US implemented stronger measures in February .
" One things that ’s attributed to is what ’s taken place with the American people .
They ’ve done a job nobody thought was possible .
They did models not based on this kind of success , " Mr Trump said .
More follows …

India’s State Borrowers Are Crowding Out Cash-Strapped Companies .
2020-04-19 23:35:16 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Indian companies struggling against the coronavirus pandemic and a domestic credit crunch are facing another obstacle : competition from state governments to sell debt .
States in Asia ’s third - biggest economy are planning to crank up bond sales by 18.2 % this quarter from a year earlier to make up for a decline in tax revenue due to an economic slowdown .
They usually have lower credit risks than companies , and are offering higher yields than before , which could entice investors .
The corporate bond market was already suffering , prompting the central bank Friday to again inject more money into it .
“ Demand for longer tenor corporate bonds from insurers and pension funds is expected to fall as they shift allocations to state bonds after the recent surge in yields , ” said Manoj Jaju , chief investment officer at
Bharti AXA General Insurance Co.
“ We too will have a bias toward state bonds over corporate debt now . ”
India is n’t alone in seeing massive bond sales by governments as authorities across the world come up with stimulus steps .
Weakening demand for company debt in India will put added pressure on borrowers already suffering from the world ’s biggest lockdown , a probable recession and a credit crunch that started in 2018 .
It also risks diluting the impact of the central bank ’s approximately $ 50 billion unconventional cash steps to support the credit market .
The Reserve Bank of India on Friday said it will inject 500 billion rupees ( $ 6.5 billion ) into the corporate bond market in a new round of targeted long - term repo operations .
At least half of the funds made available to banks through the facility should go to lower - rated firms , including shadow lenders and micro - financial institutions .
Yields on corporate bonds slid sharply after the steps .
But recent cases show how state debt may be more appealing than company securities , even with the extra policy support .
Maharashtra state , home to Mumbai , is a case in point .
It auctioned 10 - year debt on April 7 with an annualized yield of 7.98 % , the highest for that tenor since January last year .
The latest rate was 44 basis points more than the yield on similar maturity AAA corporate notes .
On the same day , REC Ltd. , a state - owned financial firm , scrapped plans to sell notes because market participants demanded higher yields .
State bonds are also attractive because they have better trading liquidity in the secondary market compared with corporate securities , said Jaju at Bharti AXA .
The state notes are accepted as collateral at the central bank ’s repurchase auctions , unlike corporate bonds , providing an added incentive for investors , he said .
At the same time , the higher yields on state bonds are a reflection of their budget difficulties .
States ’ spending requirements are likely to shoot up this financial year on account of Covid-19 , especially in health and welfare , according to a report from ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd.
As tax revenues fall , though , the trend toward more bond issuance seems certain at any rate .
Other states have also sold securities with high yields recently .
Kerala state offered 10 - year notes on April 7 at an annualized yield of 8.07 % , while West Bengal issued 2030 bonds on March 30 at 7.49 % .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Argentina’s Economy Minister Backs Wealth Tax, Rejects Austerity .
2020-04-19 18:32:07 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Argentine Economy Minister Martin Guzman has backed the idea of a wealth tax on the country ’s rich as the nation to fend off creditors and find money to help cope with the Covid-19 pandemic .
The tax would affect 11,000 people with fortunes of at least $ 2 million , Guzman said , without specifying where that cut - off point might come .
He spoke in an interview with journalist Horacio Verbitsky , published on the website El Cohete a la Luna .
President Alberto Fernandez , in a separate interview , spoke of the need for wealth redistribution .
Argentina lacks room for austerity or cutbacks and needs to reprogram its debt with the International Monetary Fund , Guzman said , as the country enters crunch negotiations with creditors .
Argentina , which is due to make about $ 500 million of debt payments on April 22 , last week announced proposals for a deal that would see it pushing back most of its payments until the next decade .
Argentina wo n’t be able to deal with its debt obligations to the IMF until 2023 , Guzman said , adding that he thinks the fund understands that the debt will have to be reorganized .
Because of the health crisis , it does n’t make sense for countries that have limited resources to pay creditors , Guzman said .
That would make recovery more difficult once the pandemic is over .
Even before the crisis though , Argentina was already unable to pay its debt .
Argentina had 2,839 confirmed Covid-19 cases and has reported 132 deaths .
It has imposed a nationwide lockdown since March 20 , which appears to have helped flatten the rate of infections .
The deal proposed on April 16 includes a three - year moratorium on all payments , a 5 % reduction on principal and a 62 % reduction in interest payments .
That ’s the same proposal Argentina would have made before the virus , the minister said .
The wealth - tax idea comes from lawmakers who had suggested a tax on people with assets of more than $ 3 million .
That ’s at the official exchange rate of around 66 pesos per dollar .
The blue - chip swap rate , a measure of where the peso would be if it were floating , has fallen to 103 pesos per dollar amid speculation the country is preparing to print more money .
Argentina needs to develop a local - currency funding market so that it no longer needs to rely so heavily on borrowing in dollars , Guzman said .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Wynn Resorts CEO calls for Las Vegas Strip to conditionally reopen in mid- to late May .
2020-04-19 17:45:20 +00:00 .
By Helen Coster
( Reuters ) - Wynn Resorts Chief Executive Officer Matt Maddox on Sunday called on the Nevada governor to begin to reopen the Las Vegas Strip in mid- to late May with extensive safety measures in place , assuming the state is in line with certain benchmarks around the spread of the coronavirus .
In an opinion column https://thenevadaindependent.com/article/a-plan-to-re-open-nevada published on the Nevada Independent news website , Maddox said Governor Steve Sisolak should reopen parts of the local economy in early May.
“ Begin with reduced occupancy , physical distancing measures in place , temperature checks and no large gatherings , ” Maddox wrote .
“ We all need to wear a mask . ”
He also laid out Wynn ’s health and safety guidelines for reopening , which include allowing a maximum of four people to ride in an elevator at one time ; and requiring guests to enter the resort through doors that are either propped open , are automated or manually operated by an employee .
Sisolak ordered all casinos and other nonessential businesses in the state to close for 30 days beginning March 18 .
He extended that order until April 30 , and last week said he has no specific date for when nonessential businesses might be allowed to reopen .
The United States has by far the world 's largest number of confirmed coronavirus cases , with more than 730,000 infections and over 39,600 deaths , according to a Reuters tally .
In Nevada , there have been at least 3,725 people confirmed to have the coronavirus and 155 deaths .
Wynn Resorts - which owns and operates the Wynn Las Vegas , the Encore Boston Harbor , the Wynn Macau and the Wynn Palace , Cotai - closed its U.S. properties on March 15 and 17 .
Wynn ’s Macau casinos reopened on Feb. 20 after a mandatory , industry - wide two - week closure .
It and other casinos resumed operations with government - mandated restrictions that include temperature checks , fewer open tables on the casino floor , and rules against guests standing or congregating .
While the coronavirus epidemic in China has been momentarily halted , in the United States it is spreading from cities to suburbs and rural areas .
U.S. President Donald Trump , who has been pushing to end state - mandated stay - at - home orders , last week laid out federal government guidelines for states to reopen their economies in a staggered , three - stage approach .
Health experts have warned that to avoid a second wave of infections once people resume activity , extensive testing must be available to track infections , as well as contact tracing and antibody testing .
Wynn is paying all salaried , part - time and hourly North American employees through May 15 , which is costing the company approximately $ 3 million per day or $ 180 million for two months , according to Maddox .
( Reporting by Helen Coster ;
editing by Grant McCool )

There’s No Real Oversight Of The $2 Trillion Coronavirus Relief Law .
2020-04-19 15:04:54 +00:00 .
When Congress passed the largest spending law in American history , a $ 2 trillion outlay aimed at offsetting the economic damage wrought by the coronavirus pandemic , it set up three different ways to look after the enormous sums and root out corruption or mismanagement of the cash .
Three weeks later , none of the three options ― a special inspector general appointed by President Donald Trump , a council of existing inspectors general , or a special oversight panel set up by Congress ― are active .
Sabotage by the Trump administration , combined with congressional apathy and gridlock , means the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve are spending hundreds of millions of dollars with no real watchdogs .
The special inspector general appointed by Trump has views of executive power that have alarmed Democrats , and stands little chance of confirmation until May.
Trump shoved aside the leader of the council of existing inspectors general .
And the congressional oversight panel ’s roster remains unfilled .
Meanwhile , the government program to loan money to small businesses to keep workers on the job has already burned through more than $ 300 billion , and the Federal Reserve and Treasury Department have unveiled a slew of programs to push trillions more into the economy .
The shambolic state of efforts to oversee the relief efforts has left government accountability advocates dismayed and progressives frustrated with the oversight of a massive spending deal that Democrats and Republican teamed up to pass with almost no objections .
“ We ca n’t really afford to be behind the ball on oversight right now , because we will miss a crucial opportunity to stop waste , fraud and abuse before it happens , ” said Liz Hempowicz , director of public policy at the Project On Government Oversight .
Here ’s a breakdown of how each part of the oversight triad is failing :
The Congressional Oversight Commission
The oversight commission , which is supposed to oversee the $ 500 billion that ...
Continue reading on HuffPost

UK PM 'on top of things' but under fire over early virus response .
2020-04-19 15:04:52 +00:00 .
The British government insisted Sunday that Prime Minister Boris Johnson was " on top of things " as he recovers from the coronavirus facing criticism of his early handling of the crisis .
The Conservative leader spent three days in intensive care after contracting the virus , and has been off work since March 27 , but was released from hospital last Sunday after a week - long stay .
Britain 's official death toll from the virus now stands at 16,060 after 596 more deaths were reported Sunday , and the country has been under lockdown since March 23 , with the government extending it until at least the end of the month .
Senior minister Michael Gove said it was too early to consider easing the restrictions given the " worrying " number of deaths .
He sought to defend Johnson after the prime minister was accused of being " missing in action " in the early stages of the outbreak .
Johnson " is absolutely on top of things " and issuing instructions , Gove told Sky News .
" The prime minister is recovering well , he is in cheerful spirits . "
His comments came after a Sunday Times newspaper report said Johnson had missed five of the government 's emergency response meetings in January and February .
" None of us expect the impossible , but there are serious questions about why the prime minister skipped Cobra meetings , " the opposition Labour Party 's shadow health minister Jonathan Ashworth told Sky News .
" It suggests early on he was missing in action . "
Gove claimed there were inaccuracies in the Sunday Times report , which was based largely on unnamed civil service sources , and that the government would issue a rebuttal .
" The idea that the prime minister ' skipped ' meetings , I think , is grotesque , there are meetings across government , some chaired by the health secretary , some chaired by other ministers , " he said .
" The prime minister took all the major decisions .
Nobody can say that the prime minister was n't throwing heart and soul into the virus . "
- ' Emotionally taxing ' -
The government is also under pressure over shortages of personal protective equipment ( PPE ) for frontline health workers , with warnings that gowns could run out within days .
Chaand Nagpaul , chair of the council of the British Medical Association ( BMA ) , told Sky that 50 percent of doctors are saying they feel they do n't have adequate protection .
" The government has n't been as agile as it should have been , " he added .
" This is extremely emotionally taxing and it 's showing its toll on the healthcare workforce . "
Gove said PPE was the government 's " first priority " and suggested that 25 million gowns would be arriving from China " in due course " .
" Gowns are the area at the moment where there is the greatest need , " he said .
Downing Street announced on Sunday that Paul Deighton , the former London Olympics chief , has been appointed to lead the effort to domestically produce PPE .
On the lockdown , Gove said : " We should n't be thinking of lifting these restrictions now .
" One of the things that is deeply worrying and concerning is still the high level of deaths , " he said .
" We 're not absolutely certain that we are yet on a downward trajectory ( of infections ) and we want to be heading towards that downward trajectory to be confident about all the steps we might want to take . "
The government is under pressure over shortages of personal protective equipment ( PPE ) for frontline health workers
Britain 's Prime Minister Boris Johnson spent three days in intensive care after contracting the virus , but was released from hospital a week ago

Hin Leong Is Said to Have Failed to Declare $800 Million Losses .
2020-04-19 09:03:56 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
The son of the legendary oil trader and founder of Hin Leong Trading ( Pte . )
Ltd. said the Singapore - based company had suffered about $ 800 million in losses from futures trading that were n’t reflected in its financial statements , according to people with knowledge of the matter .
Lim Chee Meng , the only son of Lim Oon Kuin , said he was unaware of the losses suffered over some years and his father had instructed Hin Leong ’s finance department to omit them from its financial statements , according to the people with knowledge of an April 17 email sent by the shipping arm of Hin Leong , Ocean Tankers ( Pte . )
Ltd. , notifying recipient parties of proposed moratorium proceedings .
Neither the son nor the father could be reached for comment Sunday .
Nobody responded to calls or emails to Hin Leong or Ocean Tankers seeking comment .
A spokeswoman for Rajah and Tann , one of Hin Leong ’s advisers , said the firm is unable to comment because the matter is before the court .
Hin Leong and Ocean Tankers both filed for court protection from creditors on Friday as the former struggles to repay its debts , said to be up to $ 4 billion .
The trader ’s financial distress has rocked the tightly - knit trading community in Singapore , one of the world ’s most important oil markets and its biggest ship fueling hub .
It ’s raising speculation that the privately - held company could be the latest casualty of the historic collapse in oil prices triggered by the coronavirus .
Privately - held Hin Leong posted a positive equity of $ 4.56 billion and net profit of $ 78 million in the period ended October 31 , according to the people , citing the email , which was signed off by Lim Chee Meng -- also known as Evan Lim -- and his sister Lim Huey Ching .
Bloomberg first reported Hin Leong ’s financial difficulties April 10 after some lenders had pulled credit lines from Hin Leong amid concerns over its ability to finance its debts .
It ’s said to owe almost $ 4 billion to more than 20 banks including HSBC Holdings Plc .
Lim Oon Kuin , known to many in the industry as OK Lim , will be resigning from all executive roles in Hin Leong , the Xihe Group and related companies as of April 17 , according to the people , citing the email .
He will also step down as director and managing director of Ocean Tankers .
Both Hin Leong and Ocean Tankers have filed for protection from its creditors under Section 211B of Singapore ’s Companies Act .
Hin Leong was established in 1963 and has grown into one of Asia ’s largest suppliers of ship fuel , or bunkers .
Ocean Tankers owns a fleet of more than 100 oil tankers of various sizes .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Sheriff threatened to jail teen's family if she did not delete Instagram posts about coronavirus, lawsuit says .
2020-04-19 08:15:17 +00:00 .
MADISON , Wis. – A high school sophomore sued the Marquette County sheriff Thursday after he threatened to take her or her family to jail for her post on Instagram warning that she believed she had been infected with coronavirus .
The lawsuit , filed in federal court in Milwaukee with the help of the conservative Wisconsin Institute for Law Liberty , argues the jail threat violated the teen ’s right to free speech .
The case raises questions about First Amendment protections in the middle of a pandemic .
Amyiah Cohoon in March took a spring break trip to Florida with the Westfield Area High School band .
The students returned to Wisconsin on March 15 , earlier than planned , because of the coronavirus outbreak .
Four or five days later , Amyiah fell ill and eventually had trouble breathing .
She was taken to hospitals in Portage and Madison over the next week .
She tested negative for coronavirus on March 25 , but doctors told her she likely had the illness but had been tested too late to get a positive result , according to the lawsuit .
She posted three messages on Instagram about her situation – one saying she would n't be back for a while because she had coronavirus , one saying she might have to stay in the emergency room and one with her wearing an oxygen mask .
" I am still on breathing treatment but have beaten the coronavirus .
Stay home and be safe , " she wrote in the last post .
On March 27 , Sgt .
Cameron Klump visited the girl 's home and told her father , Richard Cohoon , that Sheriff Joseph Konrath told him to get the latest Instagram post deleted or “ start taking people to jail , ” according to the lawsuit .
Klump said the family could be cited for disorderly conduct as well .
Klump told Cohoon the sheriff wanted the post removed because there were no confirmed coronavirus cases in the county at the time .
He said he was acting in part on a complaint from school authorities , according to the lawsuit .
Amyiah deleted the post , as well as one of the earlier ones .
The third post had automatically deleted after 24 hours .
Earlier on the day of the sergeant 's visit , Westfield schools District Administrator Bob Meicher sent an update to parents saying there was “ no truth ” to a rumor that a student had contracted coronavirus during the band trip , according to the lawsuit .
“ This was a foolish means to get attention and the source of the rumor has been addressed , ” he told the parents .
“ This rumor had caught the attention of our Public Health Department and she was involved in putting a stop to this nonsense .
In times like this , the last thing we need out there is misinformation . ”
Meicher did not immediately respond to questions Thursday about how the district handled the issue .
Sam Hall , an attorney for the sheriff , said the teenager " caused distress and panic " among other parents by claiming she had contracted the coronavirus despite getting a negative test result .
" This case is nothing more than a 2020 version of screaming fire in a crowded theater , " he said , referring to speech that is not protected by the First Amendment .
" It is unfortunate that the plaintiff brings this lawsuit now , while law enforcement should be able to focus solely on the public health crisis that we currently face , " Hall said .
" However , we plan to mount an aggressive defense to this lawsuit .
The lawsuit seeks what it calls “ nominal damages ” and an injunction barring the sheriff from arresting , jailing or citing the family for engaging in free speech .
Follow Patrick Marley on Twitter : @patrickdmarley .
This article originally appeared on Milwaukee Journal Sentinel : Coronavirus : Wisconsin sheriff threatened jail over Instagram post

Crowds flock to Jacksonville beaches amid record COVID-19 cases .
2020-04-19 04:17:28 +00:00 .
Mayor Lenny Curry reopened beaches and parks in Jacksonville , Florida on Friday , after Governor Ron DeSantis gave the green light for them to reopen , despite the state hitting a record number of coronavirus cases .
When they opened at 5 p.m. , crowds flooded the area , ignoring social distancing warnings .
Jacksonville Beach , Neptune Beach and Atlantic Beach are now open from 6 - 11 a.m. and 5 - 8 p.m. for " essential activities .
" They are closed during all other times .
More than 25,000 people in Florida have been infected with COVID-19 , and schools , business and public events are all closed or canceled to try to slow its spread , according to the state Department of Health .
Curry said recreational activities consistent with social distancing guidelines such as walking , biking , hiking , fishing , running , swimming , taking care of pets and surfing are considered essential and do not contradict DeSantis ' executive order .
Activities such as sunbathing , grilling , and congregating in large groups are prohibited .
" This can be the beginning of the pathway back to normal life , " said Curry .
" Please respect and follow these limitations .
Stay within the guidelines for your safety as well as for the safety of your neighbors . "
Jacksonville , Florida Re - Opens Beaches After Decrease In COVID-19 Cases More
Crowds are seen at the beach on April 17 , 2020 in Jacksonville Beach , Florida , despite social distancing warnings .
Sam Greenwood / Getty Images
But photos of the Jacksonville beaches show hundreds of people walking , swimming and talking in large groups — many without face masks .
Twitter users on Saturday morning called out Floridians for not taking proper precautions , as " Florida morons " trended nationwide .
Jacksonville Beach reopened 26 minutes ago .
This is a live picture .
pic.twitter.com/tC6voQ3BAn — Travis Akers ( @travisakers ) April 17 , 2020
I live in Florida and I do n't want to die!Yesterday we had the highest number of new cases of COVID-19 , and what does GOP Governor DeSantis do ?
He opens beaches!I just do n't want to die .
I do n't want my friends or family to die!Is that too much to ask for GOP?#FloridaMorons — Ms. Krassenstein ( @HKrassenstein ) April 18 , 2020
When the virus first hit the U.S. , DeSantis was criticized for not shutting down the state .
Thousands of people — including reckless spring breakers — packed the state beaches at the time , leading to closures .
" What we 're trying to do is maintain a scenario where we 're not crowding the beach .
We still have to be cognizant of the six - foot distance between people , " Jacksonville Beach Mayor Charlie Latham told reporters Friday .
" And we 're looking to keep people from just accumulating out here .
First , we inform people what the rules are .
Then we warn if they do n't comply .
And then we take additional action , if necessary , if they still do n't comply . "
New Jersey governor : If you think coronavirus is " just the flu , " you 're " wrong " Saturday Sessions : Taylor Goldsmith performs " St. Augustine " Saturday Sessions : Taylor Goldsmith performs " All Your Favorite Bands "

Coronavirus latest: at a glance .
2020-04-18 23:15:40 +00:00 .
Key developments in the global coronavirus outbreak today include : Spain ’s PM to ask for extension of lockdown to 9 May
Spain ’s prime minister , Pedro Sanchez , said he would ask parliament for a third 15 - day extension of the lockdown imposed to curb one of the world ’s worst outbreaks of coronavirus , taking the restrictions up to 9 May.
Sanchez said he wanted to relax restrictions on children , who would be allowed out of their homes after 27 April , though that allowance would be “ limited and subject to conditions to avoid contagion ” .
He did not go into further details .
Restrictions to be lifted in some US states Donald Trump , the US president , said Texas and Vermont will allow certain businesses to reopen on Monday while still observing coronavirus - related precautions , and Montana will begin lifting restrictions on Friday .
Some state governors have warned that they will not act prematurely to reopen their economies until there is more testing for the virus , however .
Business leaders have also told Trump the country needs to have widespread testing in place before their companies can return to normal operations .
Turkey ’s coronavirus cases overtake Iran to become highest in Middle East
Turkey ’s confirmed coronavirus cases have risen to 82,329 , Fahrettin Koca , the country ’s health minister , said .
It has overtaken neighbouring Iran for the first time to register the highest total in the Middle East .
An increase of 3,783 cases in the last 24 hours also pushed Turkey ’s confirmed tally within a few hundred of China , where coronavirus first emerged .
Koca said 121 more people have died , taking the death toll to 1,890 .
Morocco has extended its lockdown measures by another month
Morocco will extend lockdown measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus for another month until 20 May , the government said .
The decision was made by the government council as the number of confirmed cases rose to 2,685 , including 137 deaths and 314 recoveries .
Lockdown conditions imposed on 20 March mean people are only allowed to go out to buy food or medicine and to staff some key jobs .
Morocco has made wearing masks mandatory with those who fail to do so risking jail terms and fines .
France reports 642 more coronavirus deaths as country ’s toll hits 19,323
France registered 642 more deaths from coronavirus infections on Saturday , bringing the total to 19,323 , the fourth - highest tally in the world , although the number of people in hospital declined for a fourth day running .
France ’s public health authority said the total number of people in intensive care units also fell for the 10th day in a row , to 5,833 – the lowest level since 31 March .

Coronavirus: Families To Be Allowed To Attend Funerals To Mourn Loved Ones .
2020-04-18 19:23:36 +00:00 .
Get the latest on coronavirus .
Sign up to the Daily Brief for news , explainers , how - tos , opinion and more .
Families have been told they can attend funerals to mourn their loved ones and be allowed to visit their graves .
At the daily press briefing in Downing Street on Saturday , local government secretary Robert Jenrick asked councils to keep cemeteries and graveyards open , or to reopen them if they are currently closed .
He also urged councils to keep parks open after some closed their gates in recent weeks .
Jenrick announced funerals can take place with close family members present .
He pointed to the death of 13 - year - old Ismail Mohamed Abdulwahab , from Brixton in south London , who died after contracting Covid-19 on March 30 .
He said the tragedy was compounded after Ismail ’s family were not able attend his funeral four days later because they were self isolating , after two of his six siblings had displayed mild symptoms .
“ That is not right and it should n’t have happened , ” Jenrick added .
“ For clarity , funerals can go ahead with close family present .
“ Social distancing measures must be respected , but families must have the opportunity to say a respectful goodbye to those that they love . ”
Florist Emma Glynn making a funeral tribute in Barbican as the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) continues in London , Britain , April 15 , 2020 .
( Photo : REUTERS )
More
He also said he had “ made it clear ” to councils that all parks must remain open after some closed their gates in recent weeks .
Victoria Park in east London reopened on April 11 after being shut for two weeks , while Brockwell Park in south - east London had closed on April 5 after Lambeth Council claimed 3,000 people , many sunbathing or in large groups , had visited the day before .
Jenrick warned people must abide by social - distancing rules and not congregate in the green spaces .
He said lockdown measures were harder for those without gardens or open spaces and that “ people need parks ” , adding they needed to be accessible for “ the health of the nation ” .
In response to this announcement , Marie Curie Chief Executive
Matthew Reed said the news is “ very welcome ” .
“ It is heartbreaking that the virus has been robbing families of the opportunity to say goodbye to their loved ones , ” Reed said .
“ We hope that allowances can also be made , where possible and appropriate , for wider family and friends too .
“ Funerals and visiting places of rest are an important part of the grieving process ; people need the opportunity to grieve both individually and together . ”
“ Grief can feel very isolating , especially now , when emotions can be even more intense , ” he added .
“ We would strongly encourage the government to consider a national day of remembrance so that we can all join together as a nation to remember those who have died since the outbreak , both from coronavirus and from other conditions . ”
Love HuffPost ?
Become a founding member of HuffPost Plus today .
This article originally appeared on HuffPost .

Evergrande’s Emerald Bay project flops for the second time in two months as buyers stay away amid Hong Kong’s economic slump .
2020-04-18 13:12:05 +00:00 .
China Evergrande suffered its second sales flop in two months as Hong Kong ’s homebuyers gave their collective cold shoulder to its Emerald Bay flats in Tuen Mun , even after a 14 - per cent average discount .
The Chinese developer managed to find buyers for 18 flats , or a mere 6.7 per cent of the 269 units on offer at 8 pm , according to sales agents .
A month earlier , Evergrande sold a third of the first batch of Emerald Bay flats during the peak of the city ’s coronavirus outbreak .
Since then , Hong Kong ’s daily confirmed cases have fallen to single digits for six consecutive days , with two new infections today , bringing the city ’s total caseload to 1,023 , with four lives lost .
Still , that was not enough to attract buyers , in an economy mired in its first recession in decades .
Unemployment is expected to rise in Hong Kong , as the services , hospitality and retail industries bear the brunt of more than two months of stay - at - home lockdowns , as city authorities try to contain the outbreak .
The cool reception underscores the correction that is underway in the world ’s most expensive residential property market , a slump that still has some way to go , even after the Hong Kong Monetary Authority slashed its base lending rate by 50 points on March 4 in lockstep with an emergency cut in the cost of money by the US Federal Reserve .
Property investors , currently spoilt for choice amid plunging prices and expectations of more projects in the pipeline , will take their time to return to the market , said Sammy Po Siu - ming , chief executive of the residential division at Midland Realty .
“ Buying confidence will gradually return once buyers see that the coronavirus outbreak is under control , ” he said .
Phase Two of Emerald Bay , with sizes measuring 223 to 314 square feet ( 29 square metres ) , were offered at between HK$3.53 million and HK$5.67 million ( US$ 731,500 ) , or HK$16,700 per sq ft on average after the developer kept the discount unchanged at 14 per cent .
The developer made payments easier during today ’s sales launch , requiring buyers to put down 5 per cent of the property ’s price as an initial deposit , with the remainder payable only when they get their keys to the completed flats , scheduled for completion in August 2021 .
The current sales slump is in stark contrast to the sell - out success in October , when Evergrande launched its first real estate project in Hong Kong with a flying start , selling all 167 apartments on offer in a day , out of 1,982 units including 22 villas for the entire project .
Buyers were then drawn by the starting price of HK$3.18 million for a 223 sq ft flat after discounts , or HK$14,260 per sq ft , with the developer throwing in sweeteners , such as flexible financing plans , stamp duty discounts and furnishing .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Evergrande ’s Emerald Bay project flops for the second time in two months as buyers stay away amid Hong Kong ’s economic slump first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Carrier Roosevelt Sailor Who Died of COVID-19 Was 41-Year-Old Chief .
2020-04-17 18:15:40 +00:00 .
The Navy has identified the crew member of a coronavirus - stricken aircraft carrier who died in the intensive care unit this week as Aviation Ordnanceman Chief Petty Officer Charles Robert Thacker Jr. Thacker , 41 , from Fort Smith , Arkansas , was assigned to the aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt .
He died on Monday of COVID-19 , the dangerous illness brought on by the coronavirus .
He is survived by his spouse , a San Diego - based active - duty service member , who was by Thacker 's side at the time of his death , according to a Navy news release .
His spouse was flown to Guam through the Navy Air Logistics Office , arriving in Guam on April 11 .
Thacker died two days later .
His family did not issue a statement , preferring to mourn their loss privately , Lt .
Brittany Stephens , a Navy spokeswoman said .
Capt .
Carlos Sardiello , the Roosevelt 's commanding officer , said the crew 's thoughts and prayers are with Thacker 's family .
" Our number one priority continues to be the health and well - being of all members of the Theodore Roosevelt Strike Group and we remain steadfast in our resolve against the spread of this virus , " Sardiello said in a statement .
Related : Navy Believes Delivery Flights , Not Vietnam Port Stop , Brought Virus to Carrier Thacker had tested positive for COVID-19 on March 30 .
He was moved off the Roosevelt and placed into isolation with four other crew members who were also infected with the virus .
He was found unresponsive on April 9 during one of the medical checks isolated crew members receive daily .
He was transferred to Naval Base Guam by ambulance where he was admitted to the intensive care unit , according to the Navy statement .
There are now 655 COVID-19 cases among the Roosevelt 's crew .
The health crisis ultimately led to the relief of the ship 's commanding officer followed by the resignation of the former acting Navy secretary .
Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Michael Gilday said Thacker 's death was a " great loss for the ship and for our Navy . "
He pledged the ship has the Navy 's full support as the crew continues its fight against the coronavirus .
Thacker was the second U.S. service member to die as a result of the coronavirus crisis , which has caused a global pandemic .
New Jersey Army National Guard Capt .
Douglas Linn Hickok , a physician assistant who served in the U.S. Army Medical Command , died of the illness on March 28 .
More than 2,800 U.S. troops have contracted the virus .
The Roosevelt has been in Guam since late March .
More than 4,000 members of its crew have been moved off the ship as the carrier is cleaned to help stop the spread of the virus .
Those who 've tested positive for COVID-19 remain in isolation , according to Navy officials , and are receiving care from medical personnel assigned to the carrier , Naval Hospital Guam , and members of the 3rd Medical Battalion .
Crew members also have access to a resiliency counselor , a chaplain team and medical psychologists .
--
Gina Harkins can be reached at gina.harkins@military.com .
Follow her on Twitter @ginaaharkins .
Read More : Guardsman Who Died of COVID-19 Remembered as 1st Responder with Passion to Serve

GE aircraft leasing unit cancels 69 737 MAX orders .
2020-04-17 17:55:43 +00:00 .
By David Shepardson and Ankit Ajmera ( Reuters ) - General Electric Co 's GE.N aircraft leasing subsidiary on Friday canceled 69 orders for Boeing Co 's BA.N grounded 737 MAX jets as it evaluates its order book during the coronavirus pandemic , the latest setback for the U.S. planemaker .
The unit , GECAS , maintains 29 MAX aircraft in its fleet and has an additional 82 jets still on order from Boeing , it said .
Demand for airplanes has taken a beating as the pandemic has brought air travel to a virtual halt , forcing several airlines to defer deliveries of planes to a later date .
Boeing halted production of the MAX in January after two fatal crashes in five months forced the plane 's grounding in March 2019 .
Boeing has said it hopes to win approval from the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration to return the plane to service in mid-2020 .
" Today 's agreement will help GECAS better align our available fleet with the needs of our global customer base , " Greg Conlon , chief executive officer of GECAS , said in a statement .
The move comes days after Boeing posted 150 737 MAX cancellations in March , including 75 previously reported from Irish leasing company Avolon .
The remaining 75 cancellations were from buyers including Brazil 's GOL GOLL4.SA .
Boeing said on Friday it had " come to an agreement with GECAS to restructure their MAX order book . "
" In light of the COVID-19 pandemic , this adjustment helps to balance supply and demand with market realities , especially in the leasing channel , " Boeing said , referring to the respiratory disease caused by the virus .
Boeing added that " disciplined adjustments provide us with greater flexibility to manage the 4,000 outstanding 737 orders and protect the value of the MAX in the marketplace . "
Boeing shares rose 12 % Friday on news that the company plans to resume commercial plane production next week in Washington state .
The company this month said it will make two new software updates to the 737 MAX 's flight control computer to address two new issues .
A key certification test flight is not expected now until late May at the earliest .
( Reporting by David Shepardson and Ankit Ajmera in Bengaluru ;
Editing by Amy Caren Daniel and Will Dunham )

Key swing states Michigan and Pennsylvania are among hardest hit by coronavirus-fueled job losses .
2020-04-17 15:48:33 +00:00 .
America has been battered by job losses during the coronavirus pandemic , with some of the worst occurring in key swing states ahead of the U.S. presidential election in November .
Roughly 21 % of workers in Michigan have applied for unemployment benefits over the past four weeks , while 19.8 % filed jobless claims in Pennsylvania , according to data compiled by USA TODAY .
Nevada and Ohio , two other critical battleground states in 2020 , stand at 19.3 % and 14.6 % , respectively .
More than 22 million people have applied for unemployment claims over the past month , or about 14 % of the workforce , wiping out all of the job gains since the Great Recession .
Economists warn that unemployment benefits will likely remain elevated in the coming weeks as more Americans file for claims from layoffs and furloughs following processing difficulties .
Behind on child support ?
: If so , you wo n't get a stimulus check
Should I withdraw money from my 401(k ) ?
: The CARES Act allows no - penalty withdrawals , but experts advise against it
Employment of workers receiving hourly wages in the food and retail industries is currently down nearly 60 % since January , according to Oxford Economics .
Over that time , workers in these small businesses have lost about $ 1,400 in monthly income per person relative to January levels , the firm ’s data showed .
Hawaii , known for its tourism industry , is among states getting hit the hardest , with 21.7 % of its workforce applying for unemployment benefits over the past month .
Outside of the services sector , economists are monitoring goods - producing industries like manufacturing , construction and agriculture to see whether job losses could accelerate as struggling businesses await government aid .
“ In the most affected states and services sectors , we are literally running out of jobs to terminate , ” Daniel Alpert , co - creator of the U.S. Private Sector Job Quality Index , said in a note .
“ Next week , if funds are still not moving to employers , will see a spike in claims by white - collar service employees . ”
In bigger states , New York , the epicenter of the virus in the U.S. , had nearly 1.2 million people file for jobless insurance the past month , representing 12.4 % of its workforce .
California had the most claims at 2.8 million .
Rhode Island , meanwhile , had some of the highest percentage of claims in the country at 20.6 % .
South Dakota had the smallest percentage at 4.9 % .
Wyoming was among states with the fewest claims over the past four weeks at 21,496 , or 7.3 % of workers filing for benefits .
In Florida , just 653,975 claims were filed over that span , representing 6.2 % of its workforce .
To be sure , some residents in the state have complained of difficulty collecting unemployment benefits .
Texas has accepted 1 million claims , or 7.1 % of its workforce .
USA TODAY compiled the number of jobless benefits filed in each state for the four weeks ending March 21 , March 28 , April 4 and April 11 .
Those figures are from the Department of Labor and are not seasonally adjusted .
The data is charted against the number of people in the workforces of each state , as of February 2020 , the latest figures available .
Those numbers are from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and are not seasonally adjusted
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Michigan , Pennsylvania are swing states hit by job losses

Coronavirus: leading Hong Kong karate athlete kicks Covid-19 after nearly month-long fight .
2020-04-17 12:14:54 +00:00 .
A Hong Kong karate athlete who tested positive for the coronavirus after returning from a training camp in Europe has been discharged following nearly a month of treatment at hospitals in the city .
What does she want to do first ?
Take a hot shower , eat a big hamburger and then go for a run .
Tsang Yee - ting , 27 , was excited to learn she could finally go home , but admitted she felt drained by the ordeal .
“ I was just told by a nurse at 9.30pm that my stool test was negative , ” she told the Post on Thursday night .
“ I will go home to take a shower and then order a burger to fill me up .
I will go running the next day . ”
But Tsang , a two - time Asian Games representative , added : “ I would be lying if I say I have n’t felt down these days , but the key is to face the situation with a positive attitude . ”
Tsang Yee - ting ( front ) with teammates Lee Chun - ho and Chau Ka - him while training in France .
Photo :
Handout More
Tsang and her karate team were at a training camp in France as part of their preparations to qualify for the Games .
Originally scheduled to take place in Japan between July and August , the Games have been rescheduled to 2021 , due to the pandemic .
“ We were supposed to stay in France for training and games till May , but the spread of the pandemic there was so severe that we had no other choice but to return to Hong Kong , ” Tsang said .
They arrived in the city on March 15 , and her teammate Lee Chun - ho tested positive for Covid-19 on March 18 .
Two days later , Tsang was confirmed infected , and eventually two more members of the group , Chau Ka - him and French coach Rida Bel - Lahsen , tested positive .
The athlete kept up her daily exercise while recovering in hospital .
Photo :
Handout
More
Tsang spent 12 days at Prince of Wales Hospital in Sha Tin and was sent to Alice Ho
Miu Ling Nethersole Hospital in Tai Po , where she underwent treatment for 17 days .
She experienced muscle discomfort , diarrhoea , and a loss of taste and smell , which left her physically and mentally exhausted .
But she remained focused , she said .
“ I never give up easily on anything , ” says Tsang Yee - ting .
Photo :
Handout
More “ Being an athlete myself , I never give up easily on anything .
I think there is always hope , and one day I can win the battle , ” she said .
Her nasal swab tests started turning negative after more than 10 days in hospital , but her stool tests came back positive until April 13 , she said .
Her family and friends helped her throughout the ordeal , with her mother cooking for her when she had time , Tsang said .
Her boyfriend spoke with her every day to help keep her spirits up .
She thanked medical staff for taking good care of her in hospital , and other patients for encouraging her through the difficult time .
“ These days mean a lot to me , and will always be an important page in my life , ” she said .
She appealed to the public to remain at home and take precautions during the fight against the pandemic .
“ Add oil , Hongkongers , ” she said , using a local phrase of encouragement .
This article Coronavirus : leading Hong Kong karate athlete kicks Covid-19 after nearly month - long fight first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

India Stocks Climb into Bull Zone Before Unscheduled RBI Address .
2020-04-17 04:35:58 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
India stocks rose , with the benchmark gauge set to close in bull territory , ahead of an unscheduled speech by the central bank ’s governor amid a prolonged nationwide lockdown aimed at slowing the spread of coronavirus in the country .
The SP BSE Sensex climbed 3.6 % to 31,690.40 as of 9:17 a.m in Mumbai , taking gains from a March 23 low to more than 20 % , while the NSE Nifty 50 Index also advanced 3.2 % .
Both gauges have climbed into and out of a zone seen as a technical bull market in last week ’s volatile trade .
“ Investors are expecting the governor to address the need for a good package for state - owned banks , which can then support private sector lenders with funding , ” said Prakash Pandey , who oversees investments at Plutus Advisors and Consulting Pvt .
in Noida , New Delhi .
“ That will help ease the fear of defaults in the banking system , which is very high . ”
Read : RBI to Make Unscheduled Address Ahead of Bigger India Debt Sale
The Reserve Bank of India did n’t disclose details of Governor Shaktikanta Das ’s address , which will be broadcast on YouTube at 10 a.m. local time .
The RBI executed an emergency rate cut last month , and also pledged to provide $ 50 billion of liquidity .
An auction of 200 billion rupees ( $ 2.6 billion ) of bonds is scheduled later today .
The steps have helped reduce the perceived default risk for India ’s banking sector from a six - year high , with the nation set for its first annual contraction in four decades .
India ’s earnings season is in full swing , with HDFC Bank Ltd. , India ’s most valuable lender by market capitalization , scheduled to release quarterly results on Saturday .
Asia ’s largest software outsourcing provider , Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. , yesterday said it ’s confident of achieving its long - term profitability model even as quarterly profit was flat .
At the same time Wipro Ltd. on Wednesday declined to give an outlook until conditions become clearer .
The Numbers
All 19 sector sub - indexes compiled by BSE Ltd. rose , led by a gauge of real estate firms .
IndusInd Bank Ltd. ’s 7.2 % advance was the biggest on the Sensex , with all constituents gaining , while HDFC Bank Ltd. gave it the biggest boost .
Related Stories Stock Investors Prize Companies With Less Debt in India LockdownBanks That Skirted India ’s Bad - Loan Trap Ca n’t Escape a LockdownIndia Wants Defense Firms to Make Medical Gear for Virus Battle
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

COVID-19 diagnoses creep ahead in Qld .
2020-04-17 02:24:40 +00:00 .
The number of new COVID -19 cases has crept forward after six more Queenslanders were diagnosed overnight , bringing the state 's total to 1007 .
One of the new cases is a Cairns hospital laboratory worker who tested positive after being exposed by a person visiting the pathology lab .
A total of 19 people remain in hospital with 11 in intensive care .
The death toll remains at five in Queensland .
Despite the flattening of the curve , the state government will not consider rolling back coronavirus restrictions .
" This is a marathon .
We do not want to lift the restrictions and see a spike in the infection rate , " Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said on Friday .
" Anything we do involves risks , this is about looking at that risk profile and doing what is best for Queenslanders .
" We are going to tread carefully and responsibly .
It 's a fine balance to get this right
but the virus is here in Queensland and we need to understand that . "
Queensland has ramped up its testing regime , carrying out 2503 tests in the past 24 hours - more than half of the 4884 tests carried out nationwide .
" We are doing an enormous amount of testing and we will increase that as needed , " Chief Health Officer Dr Jeanette Young said .
As social distancing remains in place , Queensland police slapped one of their own with a fine for not social distancing while off duty .
A constable from the northern police region was fined $ 1,334 for failing to comply with the COVID-19 directions .
Police say the officer failed to comply with the social - distancing rules and travelling for non - essential business on April 10 .
Two men and a woman from Townsville have been charged after falsely claiming to have isolated themselves for 14 days before travelling to Doomadgee on Easter Sunday .
It is among a number of remote committees where entry has been restricted to stop the virus spreading .
" We urge everyone to follow the public health directions , employ social distancing practices and avoid unnecessary travel so we can limit the spread of coronavirus , " a police statement said .
" Local police will not tolerate this reckless behaviour and have strict measures in place to ensure the Doomadgee community is protected . "
Meanwhile , a passenger on a packed Qantas flight from Sydney to Brisbane on Monday was infectious with COVID-19 .
Queensland Health warned other passengers of the diagnosis by text and then a phone call before directing them via email on Thursday to self - quarantine .
The flight , QF520 , arrived at Brisbane domestic terminal early on Monday afternoon .
It 's unknown if the passenger knew they were infectious when they boarded the flight or when they were diagnosed with COVID-19 .

After coronavirus shutdown, Boeing will resume commercial airplane production starting next week .
2020-04-16 22:10:27 +00:00 .
Boeing says it ’s planning to resume all commercial airplane production in the Puget Sound region starting next week , more than three weeks after operations were shut down due to the coronavirus outbreak .
About 27,000 employees will be brought back to work sites ranging from Boeing ’s wide - body airplane factory in Everett to its 737 production facility in Renton , using a phased approach , the company said in a news release .
Boeing said it ’s taking extra precautions to keep its workers safe .
“ The health and safety of our employees , their families and communities is our shared priority , ” said Stan Deal , president and CEO of Boeing Commercial Airplanes .
“ This phased approach ensures we have a reliable supply base , our personal protective equipment is readily available and we have all of the necessary safety measures in place to resume essential work for our customers . ”
Employees in the Puget Sound for the 737 , 747 , 767 and 777 will return as early as the third shift on April 20 , with most returning to work by April 21 , Boeing said .
Employees for the 787 program will return as early as third shift April 23 , with most returning to work by April 24 .
The 737 program will resume working toward restarting production of the 737 MAX — which has been suspended not only because of coronavirus concerns , but also due to consequences of the worldwide grounding of the MAX fleet .
This week Boeing began ramping up production operations for defense projects such as P-8 Poseidon maritime patrol airplanes for the U.S. Navy and KC-46 tankers for the Air Force .
Those operations involve about 2,500 employees .
Operations at Boeing ’s South Carolina 787 factory remain suspended while the company assesses how to resume production safely .
Boeing ’s airplane assembly operation is considered an essential business , and as such is exempt from Washington state ’s stay - at - home order .
Nevertheless , the company suspended Puget Sound operations on March 25 , in the wake of reports that an inspector at the Everett plant had contracted COVID-19 and died .
At the time , Boeing reported that 25 employees in the Puget Sound region had tested positive for the virus .
During the weeks - long shutdown , Boeing conducted deep - cleaning operations and established more stringent workplace policies , in alignment with federal and state guidance .
Today the company said it ’s following these practices : Staggered shift start times to reduce the flow of employees arriving and departing work .
Visual controls such as floor markings and signage to create physical distance .
Face coverings will be a requirement for employees at Boeing sites in Washington .
Employees are strongly encouraged to bring in their own procedural mask or face covering ; those who do not have a mask available will be provided with one .
Providing required personal protective equipment to employees working in areas where physical distancing can not be maintained for an extended period .
Asking employees to perform self - health checks before coming to work and to stay home if they are ill .
Employee wellness checks at the beginning of every shift and voluntary temperature screening at many manufacturing locations .
Contact tracing when an employee tests positive for COVID-19 to reduce risk to teammates .
Continued virtual meetings and employees who can work from home will continue to do .
Transportation and common areas adjusted for physical distancing .
Providing hand - washing stations in high - traffic areas and additional cleaning supplies .
Boeing said the enhanced measures will continue until conditions allow for a return to regular work and cleaning processes .
More from GeekWire :

Barbara Corcoran: Educated homebuyers can get the ‘deal of a lifetime’ right now .
2020-04-16 21:57:59 +00:00 .
Is now a good time to buy a home ?
It might be — but not for the reasons you would think .
When the novel coronavirus pandemic subsides , home prices could be higher , and financing could be harder to come by , so buyers should try to find deals now , said Barbara Corcoran , Shark Tank judge and founder of the Corcoran Group , a New York - based residential brokerage .
“ If you ’re smart enough to attack the market as an educated consumer , and get out there , and make a bid on a sweetheart deal , you ’re gon na be the smartest guy .
And everybody ’s going to applaud you six months from now , ” Corcoran said on YFi PM Wednesday .
The market could soon favor sellers even more than it did previously , since sellers have pulled their homes off the market , limiting inventory and driving up prices .
On top of that , buyers will have more competition once consumers start buying again .
“ The reality is [ that ] when they [ buyers ] come to the market , everyone ’s going to be in the market at the same time , they ’re gon na pay more for the home then than they ’re going to pay now , ” said Corcoran .
Plus , banks are tightening lending standards which could make home buying harder when activity resumes .
JPMorgan Chase , the country 's largest lender by assets , announced April 11 that it has raised home loan borrowing standards .
Borrowers now need a 700 credit rating and a down payment equal to 20 % of the home ’s value .
“ Low mortgage rates are great if you can get them .
Lenders are tightening requirements .
It ’s going to take some time for banks to get comfortable lending again , ” said Danielle Hale , chief economist at Realtor.com , on The First Trade on Thursday .
Standards could get even tighter , said Corcoran .
“ Once the market resumes , a lot of people are going to be knocked out of the lending environment , [ and ] not be able to get the financing for the homes … , ” said Corcoran .
“ And in making the requirements more stringent , it ’s not good for the consumer .
It ’s especially hurtful to the first - time homebuyer . ”
( Eric McCandless via Getty Images ) BARBARA CORCORAN
More
While the current lockdown is making buying real estate difficult , buyers should still keep an eye on their local market so they can recognize a good deal when they see it , Corcoran said .
To identify good deals , buyers should learn about their local market , monitor sales data and shop online .
“ Because then they ’re [ the educated buyer ] in the position to actually recognize a sweetheart deal when they see it .
And if they pounce on it , they ’re going to get the deal of a lifetime , ” said Corcoran .
“ Every real estate cycle that has gone up and down , the deals were n’t made in the down cycles , nor in the up cycles .
They were always made in the times where there ’s the greatest uncertainty where everybody ’s guessing . ”
Sarah Paynter is a reporter at Yahoo Finance .
Follow her on Twitter @sarahapaynter
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter , Facebook , Instagram , Flipboard , SmartNews , LinkedIn , YouTube , and reddit .
More from Sarah :
Google searches for ‘ mortgage relief ’ and ‘ mortgage refinance ’ hit all - time high in March
Almost 30 % of Americans , mostly millennials , will use coronavirus stimulus checks for housing costs : survey Construction industry hit hard , even as states deem it an ‘ essential service ’
Barbara Corcoran : ‘ There is no way ’ people will buy homes from a virtual tour

Argentina Seeks to Cut Foreign Bond Interest Payments by 62% .
2020-04-16 20:31:55 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Argentina presented the broad outlines of a long - awaited restructuring offer to foreign bondholders as the recession - battered country seeks to put its finances on a sustainable path .
Investors are being asked to accept a three - year moratorium on payments and a 62 % haircut on the interest they ’re owed , Economy Minister Martin Guzman told reporters Thursday .
He said that complete details of the proposal will come tomorrow .
“ The proposal means a greater cut in interest than in principal , ” Guzman said .
The plan to restructure $ 68.8 billion in overseas debt is part of the government ’s efforts to shore up the budget and reignite growth .
Just a few years after Argentina returned to international capital markets following a decade - long lockout , the country is headed toward the ninth default in its 200 - year history .
It comes with the economy forecast to shrink for a third straight year in 2020 and the currency down by more than half over the past 24 months .
Bondholders had been bracing for pain , with the country ’s dollar - denominated notes recently trading at about 30 cents on the dollar .
Prices collapsed in August last year when primary elections signaled strong support for candidates considered to be less friendly toward business and investors .
Since taking office in December , President Alberto Fernandez has already pushed back bond payments for both peso- and dollar - denominated securities governed by local laws .
While he made those moves unilaterally , backed by a friendly court system , the bonds covered by New York law present a new test .
Economy Ministry officials and bondholders were at odds earlier this month over how long the country might go without making debt payments .
Officials from investment firms including Blackrock Inc. , Pacific Investment Management Co. , Ashmore Group Plc , Greylock Capital and Fintech Advisory Inc. have been involved in the talks , held via video conference .
Robert Koenigsberger , the chief investment officer at Gramercy Funds Management , said on Bloomberg TV April 13 that a deal could be reached within a month .
The country has $ 3.5 billion in payments on foreign - law bonds due in the remainder of 2020 , according to Buenos Aires - based consultancy 1816 Economia y Estrategia , including $ 500 million of interest due on April 22 .
Fernandez ’s administration has also been in talks with the International Monetary Fund to rework a record $ 56 billion financing agreement signed in 2018 .
Officials at the IMF said before the restructuring proposal was unveiled that a “ meaningful contribution ” will be necessary from private bondholders to ensure debt sustainability .
Fernandez is looking to reach a negotiated settlement with creditors and avoid a hard default that would result in a costly and lengthy legal fight .
But the government must decide how confrontational it wants to be with the economy in such a precarious place .
The country remains largely under lockdown through at least April 26 to halt the spread of coronavirus , and gross domestic product may contract 5.4 % this year because of the pandemic , according to a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast .
The country has a total debt load of more than $ 323 billion , equal to 89 % of GDP , and its foreign reserves have tumbled more than 40 % over the past year to just $ 43.9 billion .
( Adds details on proposal beginning in 2nd paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

N.Y. Drops Below One New Infection Per Victim, Cuomo Says .
2020-04-16 18:35:36 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- New York State ’s lockdown has reduced the rate of spread for the coronavirus to under one new infection for every existing one , an important milestone that could mean the outbreak is shrinking , Governor Andrew Cuomo said .
But even as Cuomo credited New Yorkers for altering their behavior , he implored them to continue keeping their distance from one another to prevent a resurgence , after warning previously that there would be multiple waves of outbreak .
He also announced that he was extending the state ’s lockdown under the Pause Act at least another month , to at least May 15 .
“ What determines the rate of infection ?
You do and I do , ” Cuomo said Thursday at his daily virus briefing .
“ That rate came down because people changed their behavior .
That ’s what happened . ”
The governor reported 606 new deaths in 24 hours , down from 752 the previous day .
That raised the state ’s death toll to 12,192 .
But other data suggest the state is slowly turning a corner .
The number of hospitalized patients fell below 18,000 for the first time in 10 days , declining for the fourth consecutive day .
Intensive - care admissions and intubations , in which patients are placed on ventilators to help them breathe , also declined .
The number of new hospitalizations ticked down .
And in a continued sign that the state believes the worst of the crisis is over , it sent 100 of the ventilators it had amassed to New Jersey , after sending 150 to other states Wednesday .
Separately , the state reported 8,505 new infections from Wednesday , a high number to be sure but more in line with recent trends after a spike above 11,000 the day before .
Infections remain stubbornly high , even as the hospital system has managed to get the case load under control .
But Cuomo said the infection rate , which measures the number of new patients infected by existing ones , was showing signs of stabilizing and even moving toward a decline .
Getting below the threshold of every infected person infecting one other person is an important milestone .
Above a rate of one - to - one means an outbreak is growing , while below it means it ’s contracting .
Still , arriving at such data requires extensive testing , tracing and modeling of the virus , which New York and other states have said they lack the money and staffing to do -- raising questions about how precise Cuomo ’s analysis is .
While talk has turned to New Yorkers going back to work and resuming a more normal way of life , Cuomo ’s extension of the Pause Act until at least May 15 makes clear that is still some way off , giving more time for infections to decline and for other positive trends to take root .
Cuomo left open the possibility that the lockdown could be extended further , saying he would make that assessment when the time came .
“ The rate of infection is everything , ” Cuomo said , noting that the trajectory of infections has been far lower than what expert modeling had initially predicted .
“ We ’ve controlled the beast , we ’ve brought the rate of spread down . ”
( Updates with infection and hospitalization data )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

U.S. Consumer Comfort Is Lowest Since Before Trump Elected .
2020-04-16 15:34:13 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
U.S. consumer sentiment continued to sink rapidly last week , falling to the lowest level since before President Donald Trump was elected as the fallout from the Covid-19 pandemic continued to pound the economy .
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped another 5.4 points after a record 6.4 - point slump in the previous week .
The gauge has plummeted 18.5 points in the last four weeks , the largest such slide in 34 years of weekly polls .
At 44.5 , the index is the lowest since October 2016 .
The subindex that measures views of the economy slumped 7 points in the period ended April 11 , the second - largest decline after a record 10.6 - point drop the previous week , to 37.4 .
The gauge of the buying climate , which tracks attitudes toward spending , decreased 5.9 points to 37 , the lowest since December 2015 .
With layoffs and business closings continuing , the personal finances subindex stands at a more than two - year low of 59.1 and has shed 12.1 points from its all - time high in late January .
From a partisan standpoint , the comfort index stands at a three - year low among Republicans , while it fell to the lowest since January 2017 for political independents .
Democrats showed the least consumer comfort , with the index dropping to its weakest point since September 2012 .
( Adds graphic )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Elizabeth Holmes Could Evade Trial Until 2021 Due To Coronavirus .
2020-04-16 15:14:19 +00:00 .
Elizabeth Holmes is one person who might actually be relieved about the coronavirus pandemic .
As a result of the virus , Homes — the founder of Theranos — is evading her trial date , which will be postponed until October 27 , with the potential for it to be pushed to 2021 if necessary .
That ’s one way to put off a potential 20 - year prison sentence .
Attorneys for Holmes filed a memo this week , according to CNBC , outlining the risks of conducting the high - profile trial amid the public health crisis .
“ The defense , jurors , and witnesses will all enter the courthouse through crowds of onlookers who have often approached and even touched counsel and the defendant during entry to the building , ” Holmes ’ lawyers wrote .
They also noted that if anyone in the trial contracted the virus “ the risk of a mistrial would be substantial . ”
A judge agreed , saying , “ We need to make sure the environment is safe for all parties , including the jury that ’s called to hear the matter . ”
Her trial had originally been scheduled to begin in July .
Holmes became a media darling for being the youngest self - made woman billionaire in the U.S.
The company she founded in 2003 , Theranos , was worth $ 9 billion at one point , and promised to run hundreds of tests off of one or two drops of blood .
They partnered with Walgreens and Safeway , who adopted those tests for hoards of people in the U.S. Holmes ’ star wias quickly on the rise : she gave a TED Talk and was profiled in The New Yorker .
And then , Wall Street Journal reporter John Carreyrou exposed the entire thing as a fraud .
It did n’t take long for everything to come crumbling down .
Holmes and her partner , Ramesh “ Sunny ” Balwani were charged with fraud in March 2018 , and indicted on nine counts of wire fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud .
Each face a maximum sentence of 20 years if found guilty , though the two are being tried separately .
Public interest in the Holmes story was renewed last year with the release of the HBO documentary , The Inventor .
But people have been eating her story up since her deception was revealed and there have been numerous books , podcasts , and films about Theranos and Holmes ’ deception , and numerous stories about her fake voice or her Steve Jobs - esque uniform of black turtlenecks .
For now , at least , the saga will continue — with a slight delay to prioritize public health .
Like what you see ?
How about some more R29 goodness , right here ?
Before Elizabeth Holmes , There Was Liz Carmichael
Bombshell Photo Drops In Olivia Jade College Scam
You Can Thank Fyre Fest For HBO 's New Show

Kapten merges with parent company Free Now, starts restructuring plan .
2020-04-16 14:20:35 +00:00 .
French ride - hailing company Chauffeur - Privé rebranded to Kapten just last year .
At the time , the company had big expansion plans to compete with Uber in Europe across multiple markets .
But Kapten is now going to merge with Free Now , another app from the same company — following this move , there will be a restructuring plan .
Kapten has had a rough corporate journey , so fasten your seat belt .
Daimler AG acquired Kapten back in December 2017 .
More recently , Daimler AG and BMW Group agreed to merge their urban mobility services into a single holding company .
Both German car manufacturers own a 50 % stake each in five joint ventures — Reach Now , Charge Now , Park Now ,
Free Now
and Share Now .
Free Now was originally created as the parent company of mytaxi , Kapten , Clever Taxi and Beat .
mytaxi then rebranded to Free Now and started using Free Now as the name of the service .
As the original name of the company suggests , Free Now ( the app ) lets you hail a taxi and pay for a ride from your phone .
Kapten , however , is a direct Uber competitor .
It operates a marketplace of independent professional drivers — not taxi drivers .
The service is currently live in Paris , Lyon , Nice , Cannes , London , Lisbon and Porto .
Last year , Kapten said it wanted to operate in 15 major cities by 2020 .
There was no plan to merge Daimler AG ’s and BMW Group ’s ride - hailing services as it was time for growth .
It launched its service in Geneva but shut it down six months later .
The parent company announced internally that Kapten would merge with Free Now in late 2019 — before the coronavirus crisis .
The merger should happen this year .
As a result , there will be a single brand , a single app and a single team with Marc Berg at the helm .
According to the company , Free Now is in a difficult financial position .
There will be a restructuring plan across the entire European team .
There will be local teams , but the company will centralize tech teams in Hamburg , Berlin and Barcelona — the tech hub in Paris will shut down .

Nicaragua's 74-year-old president finally been seen after disappearing from public for more than a month .
2020-04-16 10:03:18 +00:00 .
Reuters / Oswaldo Rivas
Nicaragua 's 74 - year - old president reappeared in public for the first time on Wednesday after not being seen since March 12 .
His disappearance had been particularly concerning given the coronavirus pandemic , which the Nicaraguan government has not addressed through major policies .
According to Human Rights Watch , Ortega is " the only Latin American leader who has not made a single public announcement on how his government would address the pandemic . "
Ortega has disappeared from the public view before , and some suspect his absences are due to chronic illnesses .
Visit Insider 's homepage for more stories .
The president of Nicaragua , 74 - year - old Daniel Ortega , reappeared on Wednesday after not being seen in public since March 12 .
His unknown whereabouts sparked rumors and controversy .
Amid the novel coronavirus pandemic , Ortega 's disappearance has prompted rumors that the Latin American leader has been in quarantine or ill , according to The New York Times .
He was conspicuously absent from the recent funeral of an old friend and former jail cellmate , Jacinto Suárez , with whom he worked to overthrow the dictator Anastasio Somoza in the 1970s .
His disappearance has even sparked a meme on social media , with users joking , " Be like Ortega : Stay home , " according to the Times .
Human Rights Watch has decried Ortega 's lack of a response to the coronavirus pandemic , noting in a statement that he is " the only Latin American leader who has not made a single public announcement on how his government would address the pandemic . "
The disappearance has prompted concern that Nicaragua is without strong leadership amid a public health crisis .
Unlike many other nations , Nicaragua has n't imposed social - distancing policies such as closing businesses or encouraging residents to stay home .
So far , the Nicaraguan government has reported just nine coronavirus cases and one death , CNN reported .
Ortega has disappeared in the past without explanation and many suspect he has chronic illnesses , according to the Times .
The leader of a Nicaraguan opposition group , Juan Sebastián Chamorro , has criticized Ortega 's absence and suggested it was a ploy to shore up public support .
" I think it is in preparation for his glorious appearance , " Chamorro told the Times last week .
" He has done similarly in the past .
He will resurrect on Easter . "
Nicaragua 's vice president , Rosario Murillo , who is also Ortega 's wife , has hosted daily briefings and recently assured the public that Ortega is " here , working , directing , coordinating all the efforts , " according to The Times .
Read the original article on Insider

Crown and Star casinos outline survival strategies for coronavirus shutdowns .
2020-04-16 06:40:54 +00:00 .
Australia ’s two big casino groups , Crown Resorts and the Star group , have released details of their survival strategies in a bid to reassure investors they can weather the shutdowns of their businesses due to the coronavirus .
The government announced that casinos must close on 23 March , resulting in two of the nation ’s biggest employers laying off thousands of staff and closing their casinos .
The Star announced on Thursday it had executed an additional debt - funding facility with existing relationship banks for $ 200 m to strengthen its liquidity position .
Related : Essential service ?
Call for Crown casinos and pokie venues to be shut during coronavirus outbreak
It said it has stood down about 8,500 staff and terminated casuals and contractors .
It would access the government ’s jobkeeper scheme for eligible employees , it said .
The chief executive , Matt Bekier , had taken a 40 % pay cut and directors had cut their fees by 50 % .
Crown announced on Thursday it had lined up facilities with its banks for a total of $ 560 m and had agreed terms with the three banks funding the construction of its Barangaroo project to allow building to continue .
“ This facility [ for $ 450 m ] remains subject to final credit approvals and long - form documentation , ” Crown said .
It said its current cash balance of “ approximately $ 500 m , together with its ability to secure over $ 1bn in additional debt facilities ” , reflected “ Crown ’s strong financial position ” during the period of disruption .
It did not provide estimates of how long its cash would last .
Crown has now stood down about 95 % or more than 11,500 of its employees .
“ Only employees in business - critical functions remain actively working , ” the company said .
Ex - gratia payments of two weeks ’ pay were given to those full - time and part - time employees , while casuals were given a lump sum payment of $ 1,000 .
Staff were also allowed to draw down on existing annual and long - service leave .
Crown ’s chief executive , Ken Barton , and the board have taken 20 % cuts to their remuneration .
Including the new facility , the Star said it had available cash and undrawn debt facilities of $ 700 m. That , it said , would provide sufficient liquidity for an extended period of shutdown .
Unlike Crown , Star provided estimates of the rate it would burn through cash , saying it would need about $ 220 m in total under a three - month shutdown to 30 June and $ 320 m in total under a six - month shutdown to 30 September .
Those estimates include operating expenses , drawdowns by employees on accrued annual and long - service leave entitlements , payables offset by receivables , interest payments , and capital expenditure payments , Star said .
Star ’s expansion plans were at a much earlier stage .
Crown , however , is midway through the construction of its $ 2.2bn high - roller casino and apartment block at Barangaroo , which is designed to cater to VIP gamblers from China .
Many of the luxury units have also been sold to offshore investors .
“ Crown intends to continue construction of the Crown Sydney project as planned and , absent any further delays arising from the impact of Covid-19 , remains on track for completion of the Crown Sydney hotel resort by the end of the year , ” Crown said in the statement to the ASX
A slowdown or halting of major construction projects would be a further blow to the Australian economy .
“ Currently , there are over 1,300 people employed on the construction of Crown Sydney , which is expected to be maintained until completion , ” the company said .
“ In the lead - up to the full opening of Crown Sydney , Crown expects to recruit over 2,000 people to work in the hotel resort . ”

Sri Lanka reduces banks' emergency funding rate for the first time since 2003 .
2020-04-16 06:01:43 +00:00 .
By Swati Bhat MUMBAI ( Reuters ) - Sri Lanka 's central bank said on Thursday it will immediately adjust its bank rate , the emergency funding rate for commercial banks , to 10 % , an effective reduction of 500 basis points , to align it with falls in key rates since last May.
The move underlines efforts by policymakers globally to provide support to economies hit by the coronavirus crisis .
The bank rate has been at 15 % since August 2003 and this is the first time since then that any adjustment in being made .
The bank rate is the emergency rate at which the Central Bank of Sri Lanka ( CBSL ) provides credit to commercial banks against acceptable collateralised assets .
It acts as a penalty rate , which is higher than other market rates and is known as a Lender of Last Resort rate at which emergency loans are provided to banks .
The CBSL cut its Standing Lending Facility Rate ( SLFR ) and Standing Deposit Facility Rate by 25 bps each to 7.00 % and 6.00 % , respectively earlier in April , its third cut in three weeks to tackle the coronavirus pandemic .
The bank has cut the key interest rates five times over the last year , starting with a reduction last May after the Easter bomb attacks that triggered a slump in investment and tourism .
The Monetary Board of the CBSL , at its meeting held on April 15 decided to allow the bank rate to automatically adjust in line with their SLFR with a margin of +300 basis points , it said .
" With effect from 16 April 2020 , the Bank Rate , which is an administratively determined rate that could be used in periods of emergency , has been effectively reduced by 500 basis points from 15.00 % to 10.00 % , " CBSL said .
Analysts said the move would help banks access emergency funding at much cheaper rates and is crucial at the current juncture when markets are highly volatile .
Sri Lanka so far has over 230 confirmed COVID-19 cases , far lower than its neighbours , but the central bank has taken several measures to tackle its impact on an economy that is highly dependant on tourism for its revenues .
" Given that the normal CBSL lending rate is 7 % at the moment , a 800 bps margin to the emergency rate seems too wide and makes sense to set a 300 bps automatic margin instead , " said Thilina Panduwawala , a senior product leader at Frontier Research .
" So now it will automatically adjust with policy rate changes " .
( Reporting by Swati Bhat ;
Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Raju Gopalakrishnan )

Top LNG Buyer to Delay Shipments Through 2020 as Demand Hit .
2020-04-16 04:14:43 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
One of the world ’s top buyers of liquefied natural gas is trying to defer some shipments scheduled through this year as the coronavirus outbreak cripples demand and as it grapples with brimming inventories .
The move signals that efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19 may impact energy consumption far into 2020 and possibly the next year , worsening a glut of natural gas and oil that ’s punished prices .
The buyer , Korea Gas Corp. , is in discussions with term suppliers , including Qatargas and Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd , to delay cargoes slated for delivery through October , with some being moved into next year , according to people with knowledge of the matter .
The company , known as Kogas , had already started asking suppliers to push off immediate shipments earlier this month .
The virus has already disrupted LNG deliveries across Asia .
Indian importers this week requested further delays to shipments after the government extended a nationwide lockdown until May 3 .
Meanwhile , several buyers in North Asia have exercised so - called “ downward quantity tolerance ” clauses in their long - term contracts , which allow them to take up to 10 % less volume than originally agreed .
Earlier this year , buyers in China , where the virus first hit , declared force majeure on some cargoes .
Kogas has asked Qatargas to delay as many as 18 cargoes originally scheduled over the next six months , one of the people said , requesting not to be identified as the discussions are private .
The company is seeking for some of the cargoes to be delivered in 2021 , the person said .
It is n’t clear how many cargoes in total Kogas has requested to delay from all of its suppliers .
A Kogas spokesman Thursday confirmed the company has delayed or reduced some supplies contracted for delivery this year , including from Malaysia and Qatar , without providing details on volumes , timing or other suppliers .
Petronas , as the Malaysian state firm is known , and Qatargas did n’t respond to requests for comment .
While South Korea has taken stringent measures to contain the virus , economists still expect the nation to grow this year at the weakest pace since the Asian financial crisis two decades ago , or even contract .
Meanwhile , the nation ’s already high LNG inventories at the end of March will limit the potential for stockpiling in the next few months , according to BloombergNEF .
( Updates to add chart , Kogas comment in penultimate paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

US judge cancels permit for Keystone XL pipeline from Canada .
2020-04-16 00:06:40 +00:00 .
BILLINGS , Mont. ( AP ) — A U.S. judge canceled a key permit Wednesday for the Keystone XL oil pipeline that ’s expected to stretch from Canada to Nebraska , another setback for the disputed project that got underway less than two weeks ago following years of delays .
Judge Brian Morris said the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers failed to adequately consider effects on endangered species such as pallid sturgeon , a massive , dinosaur - like fish that lives in rivers the pipeline would cross .
The ruling , however , does not shut down work that has begun at the U.S.-Canada border crossing in Montana , according to attorneys in the case .
Pipeline sponsor TC Energy will need the permit for future construction across hundreds of rivers and streams along Keystone 's 1,200 - mile ( 1,930 - kilometer ) route .
“ It creates another significant hurdle for the project , " said Anthony Swift with the Natural Resources Defense Council , one of the groups that challenged the permit .
“ Regardless of whether they have the cross border segment ...
Keystone XL has basically lost all of its Clean Water Act permits for water crossings , " he said .
TC Energy was reviewing the ruling but remained “ committed to building this important energy infrastructure project , " spokesman Terry Cunha said .
Officials with the Army Corps of Engineers did not have an immediate response to the ruling .
Morris is holding a court hearing Thursday on two other lawsuits against the $ 8 billion pipeline .
American Indian tribes and environmental groups want him to halt the construction at the border while a lawsuit challenging President Donald Trump 's approval of the pipeline last year works its way through the courts .
The pipeline was proposed in 2008 and would carry up to 830,000 barrels ( 35 million gallons ) of crude daily to Nebraska , where it would be transferred to another TC Energy pipeline for shipment to refineries and export terminals on the Gulf of Mexico .
It was rejected twice under the Obama administration because of concerns that it could worsen climate change , then Trump revived it .
TC Energy ’s surprise March 31 announcement that it intended to start construction amid a global economic crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic came after the provincial government in Alberta invested $ 1.1 billion to jump - start the work .
Tribal leaders and some residents of rural communities along the pipeline 's route worry that thousands of workers needed for the project could spread the virus .
As many as 11 construction camps , some housing up to 1,000 people , were initially planned for the project .
TC Energy says those are under review amid the pandemic and wo n't be needed until later in the summer .
Work on two camps , in Montana and South Dakota , could start as soon as this month , according to court documents filed by the company this week .

PDC Darts Home Tour: Live stream, how to watch for free, schedule, players, scores and rules .
2020-04-15 19:43:25 +00:00 .
The first matches for the PDC ' Home Tour ' series have been confirmed , with world darts champions Peter Wright to kick off the live event from his living room on Friday .
Wright will face Peter Jacques in the opening match with Jamie Lewis and Holland 's Niels Zonneveld also in Group One .
The PDC 's tournament will feature 32 consecutive nights of action following the success of their ' Darts at Home ' offering on Sky Sports .
With the UK on lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic , darts stars have been facing off from the comfort of their own homes via video links .
Raymond van Barneveld beat Phil Taylor 7 - 6 in a thrilling contest last week , and the PDC has now confirmed plans for a new home - staged event available for all PDC Tour Card holders to enter .
Format and schedule
Four players will be in action from 7:30pm BST every night for 32 days in a row starting from Friday , and 32 group winners will advance to the second stage of the competition .
Nights One to Four
Group One - Friday April 17 Peter Wright v Peter Jacques
Jamie Lewis v Niels Zonneveld Peter Jacques v Niels Zonneveld Peter Wright v Jamie Lewis Jamie Lewis v Peter Jacques
Niels Zonneveld v Peter Wright Group Two - Saturday April 18
Gerwyn Price v Rowby - John Rodriguez
Luke Woodhouse v Ted Evetts
Rowby - John Rodriguez v Ted Evetts
Gerwyn Price v Luke Woodhouse
Luke Woodhouse v Rowby - John Rodriguez
Ted Evetts v Gerwyn Price Group Three - Sunday April 19
Dave Chisnall v Scott Waites
Jan Dekker v Jonathan Worsley Scott Waites v Jonathan Worsley
Dave Chisnall v Jan Dekker
Jan Dekker v Scott Waites Jonathan Worsley v Dave Chisnall Group Four - Monday April 20
Ross Smith v Lisa Ashton
Mickey Mansell v Geert Nentjes
Lisa Ashton v Geert Nentjes
Ross Smith v Mickey Mansell
Mickey Mansell v Lisa Ashton
Geert Nentjes v Ross Smith How to watch
The matches will be broadcast live on PDCTV for free to registered PDCTV users , including those with free memberships .
Sign up for free to watch all the action .
Tournament rules
All matches are best of nine legs ( first to five ) .
The player listed on the left of the fixture will throw first in odd - numbered legs .
Two Points awarded for a win .
Should players finish level on Points , the Leg Difference will be used to decide positions .
Should Points and Leg Difference be equal between two players , then the winner of the game between the two players will determine who finishes higher .
Should Points and Leg Difference be equal between three players , the Overall Average of each player ( across the three games on the night ) will be used to determine who finishes higher .
Scores and commentary
To add a layer of shine to proceedings , there will be live score graphics on screen along with commentary from Rob Dawson .

Apple Launches New Cheap iPhone to Boost Sales Ahead of 5G Model .
2020-04-15 17:59:22 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Apple Inc. unveiled the new iPhone SE , its first low - cost smartphone in four years , seeking to boost sales while consumers wait for the launch of new high - end models with 5 G later this year .
The technology giant ’s new iPhone costs $ 399 , several hundred dollars cheaper than the flagship iPhone 11 and iPhone 11 Pro lines .
To get to the lower cost , Apple is using an iPhone 8 design that debuted in 2017 along with a less advanced camera system , a smaller and older display and a Touch ID fingerprint scanner instead of 3 - D facial recognition .
The new model comes in black , white or red with storage options ranging from 64 GB to 256 GB , Cupertino , California - based Apple said on Wednesday .
While many of the device ’s specifications have been surpassed by newer technology at this point , the iPhone SE does use the same A13 processor as the latest flagship iPhone .
This also gives Apple a more competitive model in countries such as India that are flooded with cheaper Android phones .
Apple is recycling the iPhone SE name , which was introduced in 2016 with a well - received compact device based on the design of the iPhone 5S from 2013 .
The 2020 iPhone SE is again smaller than the company ’s flagships , with a 4.7 - inch screen , compared with 6.1 - inches for the iPhone 11 .
The screen also uses older Liquid Crystal Display technology instead of the more advanced Organic Light Emitting Diode screens .
The launch of the new iPhone SE shows that Apple ’s supply chain in China has returned to a place of some normalcy amid the global Covid-19 pandemic .
In March , Apple started selling two new Mac personal computers and an updated iPad Pro .
However , the company is introducing a new phone into a weak global economy .
Wednesday ’s launch also marks the first time that Apple has released an iPhone while most of its retail stores are closed and many of its employees are developing devices from home .
Read more : Apple Culture of Secrecy Tested by Employees Working Remotely
The mid - tier iPhone SE with 128 GB of storage costs $ 449 , while the model with the most storage is $ 549 , $ 50 less than the more - advanced iPhone XR .
The phones can be pre - ordered starting April 17 and will arrive beginning April 24 , Apple said .
Apple has discontinued its previous cheaper iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus offerings .
The line now consists of the iPhone 11 , iPhone 11 Pro , iPhone XR and iPhone SE .
Bloomberg News reported on the iPhone SE last September and again in January .
The new , more budget - friendly iPhone should appeal to users looking for a more pocket - sized iOS device or fingerprint authentication in a time when face masks are making Face ID inconvenient .
While Touch ID on the new iPhone SE is integrated into the Home button , Apple is planning to add the function into the actual screens of future models , Bloomberg News reported last year .
It also could serve as something to tide users over until Apple introduces revamped flagship iPhones later this year with faster 5 G networking and a rear - facing 3 - D camera for improved augmented - reality applications .
Read more : Apple Plans IPad - Like Design for Next iPhone , Smaller HomePod
The company also said the new iPad Pro Magic Keyboard will go on sale Wednesday and will be shipped next week .
The $ 299 and up keyboard is designed to turn the latest iPads into laptop - like computers .
( Updates with details on additional prices in 6th paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Racing shutdown extended into May due to coronavirus .
2020-04-15 17:02:56 +00:00 .
Racing in the United Kingdom is to be suspended into May and not resume as previously hoped on April 30 due to the coronavirus pandemic , the British Horse Racing Authority ( BHA ) announced on Wednesday .
The BHA said it would not set a fixed date for any resumption but expected it would be behind closed doors if it did resume in May.
They said they took the decision with the British Government expected to extend the nationwide lockdown for several weeks on Thursday .
Racing has been at a standstill since March 18 .
" The suspension of racing , which is due to finish at the end of April , is to be extended after a decision today by the Board of the British Horseracing Authority , " read their statement .
" The BHA has not set a new date for ending the suspension but plans are in place so that the sport is ready to resume as soon as is possible and appropriate in consultation with government . "
The BHA said with mass gatherings banned due to the British Government 's social distancing rules June would be the earliest they could foresee paying spectators coming to the tracks .
That might open up the possibility of the historic five day Royal Ascot meeting being open to the public .
" Because of the very strong likelihood that restrictions on mass gatherings will continue , the BHA has decided that racing with crowds will not be possible until June at the earliest , " they said in the statement .
" When there is greater clarity about the duration for which restrictions on crowds will apply , the BHA will communicate this to the sport , to customers and to fans . "
- ' Hanging on in there ' -
Racing authorities will be mindful of pressing ahead with bringing back paying customers .
It attracted heavy criticism for going ahead with the showpiece four day Cheltenham Festival last month which attracted over 250,000 spectators .
They defended that decision saying they were following government advice at the time -- other sporting events such as the Six Nations matches between England and Wales as well as Scotland hosting France had gone ahead the previous weekend .
Even before Wednesday 's announcement high profile meetings such as the first two classics of the season , the 1000 and 2000 Guineas at Newmarket on May 2/3 , and the blue riband of the flat the Epsom Derby along with the Oaks ( June 5 and 4 respectively ) had been postponed .
The further extension of the sport 's lockdown threatens to hit people working in the industry hard .
Dawn Goodfellow , chief executive of Racing Welfare the charity that looks after the British horse racing workforce , told AFP last week what a suspension could mean .
" May 1 is pivotal as already we have had genuine cases of hardship but if it does not resume it could become a torrent , " she said .
" There will be many more businesses in distress and that will impact on their employees who will also seek help from us .
" Owners may take their horses away from trainers to reduce their costs in training fees , and staff who are hanging on in there just for the moment may well be let go . "
Racing in the United Kingdom has been shut down till May at the earliest ruling out a hoped for resumption on April 30 British racing authorities announced
Crowds will only be able to return to racetracks in June at the earliest said British racing authorities who were criticised for allowing mass crowds to attend the Cheltenham Festival in March despite the coronavirus
pandemic

Virus-hit NSW aged care worker 'mortified' .
2020-04-15 16:32:01 +00:00 .
A western Sydney aged care employee who is believed to have worked while infectious with COVID-19 did not show symptoms at work , NSW Police says .
The worker at Anglicare 's Newmarch House aged care facility in Caddens was originally said to have gone to work for six days with symptoms of illness , before she tested positive for the coronavirus .
NSW Health said the woman worked with very mild symptoms while infectious but police in the latest update on Wednesday said they understood she was not symptomatic at work .
She was tested after her most recent shift , when she learned of contact with a person unrelated to the facility who had been confirmed to have COVID-19 , NSW Police said .
Five additional staff members and four residents at the facility have also tested positive .
NSW Chief Health Officer Dr Kerry Chant said the woman was " absolutely mortified " .
" I would urge people to remember that the symptoms of COVID-19 can be incredibly mild and the key point is ' do not go to work ' , " Dr Chant told reporters on Wednesday .
" I would particularly urge ( that ) if you work associated with providing care to the elderly , the aged and disability ... to have that incredibly high awareness of even minor changes in your health . "
The health worker is " incredibly distraught " about the circumstances , Dr Chant said .
While Dr Chant said the woman " worked whilst she had very mild symptoms " , Anglicare Sydney chief executive Grant Millard on Wednesday said she did not display any symptoms during her last shift at the facility .
" Nothing was disclosed to us when she was last seen on April 6th , she did not display any symptoms , " Mr Millard told ABC TV .
The woman was seen by a residential manager at the time , he said .
" They displayed no symptoms , at that time they requested some time off work .
We 're not sure why they did that , " Mr Millard said .
Anglicare on Sunday traced all workers in Newmarch House , including anyone who 'd had contact with those infected at the home .
Some 40 staff at the facility have been stood down to self - isolate at home , Mr Millard said .
Approximately 100 residents - who have an average age of 85 - are isolating in their own rooms .
They are being tended to by staff wearing protective equipment .
" We brought in extra physios , extra staff in order to deal with this very challenging situation - it 's very , very tough , " Mr Millard said .
" People are rightfully upset .
We 're very concerned , but the critical issue at this stage is to ensure that we have the testing results for everyone in the home who has been tested yesterday . "
Some family members of those in the aged care home are " very distressed by this " , Mr Millard said .
NSW Police Commissioner Mick Fuller on Wednesday said officers would visit the home for the sake of transparency .
Police later said they had spoken with Anglicare 's chief executive and the facility manager , and had received information on possible contacts with residents and other staff , and workplace health and safety arrangements .
" No further police action is expected to be required , " a NSW Police statement said .
The woman also worked two shifts at Greystanes Disability Services in Leura .

Sa Sa targets Hongkongers as first-quarter sales fall by more than 56 per cent amid absence of mainland Chinese customers .
2020-04-15 14:30:29 +00:00 .
Beleaguered Hong Kong cosmetics retailer Sa Sa International will focus on Hongkongers ’ needs after local customers emerged as the biggest source of revenue in its fourth quarter , which runs from January to March end .
“ Local customers now account for most of the group ’s revenue …
[ we ] will continue to adjust its product mix to meet their demand for protective and pandemic - related products , and other beauty products , ” Simon Kwok Siu - ming , the company ’s chairman and chief executive , said in an exchange filing after market close on Wednesday .
The company said its wholesale and retail sales had declined by 56.5 per cent to HK$892.4 million ( US$ 115.1 million ) in the three - month period .
In Macau and Hong Kong , major markets for the company that accounted for more than 70 per cent of its turnover over the period , wholesale and retail sales declined by 62 per cent to HK$657.6 million .
The company attributed this plunge in sales to a decline in transactions by mainland Chinese tourists , which dived by 80.8 per cent .
Its local customers increased by 4.1 per cent year on year , but its overall transaction volume decreased by 43.4 per cent for the three - month period .
Sa Sa , and Hong Kong ’s retail sector generally , have been hit hard by a double whammy : first , the city ’s anti - government protests ; and then the Covid-19 outbreak .
Last month , visitor arrivals to Hong Kong plunged by about 99 per cent to a record low of 82,000 from a year earlier , the Hong Kong Tourism Board said on Wednesday .
“ In view of the persistent severe operating environment , the group will continue to implement strategies for reducing costs , so as to maintain its competitiveness and reduce losses , ” the company said in the filing .
It will also continue to downsize its presence in Hong Kong and request short - term rental concessions from landlords where leases are yet to expire .
Its shares have retreated 27.3 per cent this year , underperforming a 14.3 per cent loss on the Hang Seng Index .
It has closed nine stores across all markets excluding Singapore since October .
In December , it closed all 22 stores in the Lion City .
Short - term measures such as reducing salaries and unpaid leave have also been implemented .
In February , Sa Sa asked its executive directors to take a pay cut of 75 per cent for three months to help reduce cost , after a slump in sales over the Lunar New Year holiday caused by the coronavirus outbreak .
Elsewhere , Fast Retailing , the operator of Uniqlo stores , also reported a 11.9 per cent drop in net profit last week for the six - month period ending February 29 .
It said 395 of its stores in China were temporarily closed in February , although its revenue had started to recover in March when a majority of these stores were reopened for business .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Sa Sa targets Hongkongers as first - quarter sales fall by more than 56 per cent amid absence of mainland Chinese customers first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Our National-Debt Problem Isn’t Going Away .
2020-04-15 10:42:48 +00:00 .
In responding to the coronavirus pandemic and the health and economic catastrophes that it has wrought , politicians from both parties may have found their dream : a problem you really do have to throw money at .
Already , Congress has passed three rescue packages totaling more than $ 2.2 trillion in new spending and is in the process of negotiating a fourth , all of it financed by borrowing .
At the same time , the economy has collapsed , meaning that tax revenues have all but evaporated .
As a result , this year ’s deficit is predicted to reach $ 3.8 trillion , 2.5 times the record set after the 2008 recession .
Our national debt has already been pushed to more than $ 24 trillion , and the debt - to - GDP ratio is expected to exceed World War II levels by 2023 .
Of course , some will point out that if we are going to borrow massive amounts of money , now is a reasonably good time to do so .
For one thing , even most hardcore fiscal conservatives agree that the COVID-19 crisis warrants it .
For another , interest rates are extremely low , and the shutdown - induced reduction in consumer demand , which could extend for some time , means inflation is not likely to be a problem in the short term .
Still , we should n’t pretend that there wo n’t be long - term consequences to this federal spending spree .
It is vitally important that necessary responses to this crisis not become an excuse for pork - barrel spending or bailouts of favored constituencies , and that temporary measures do n’t become permanent new programs .
Indeed , what comes after the crisis is just as important as what we do to combat the crisis .
Federal spending went from 55 percent of GDP in 1944 to 16 percent in 1947 , as the government cut back after World War II .
Combined with post - war economic growth , that led to around a 50 - point reduction in the debt - to - GDP ratio within a decade .
Today , however , we face constraints that are likely to make a similar draw - down of spending more difficult .
First , our economy is not likely to boom in the immediate future .
President Trump ca n’t just snap his fingers , reopen the economy , and return everything to normal , however much he might like to have that power .
The post - coronavirus recession may well linger for some time .
Second , we face a demographic challenge that post - war America did not .
Our population is considerably older and aging rapidly .
Entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare have tens of trillions of dollars in unfunded liabilities that are n’t going away .
There will be no reduction in the federal debt without reforming those programs , something for which no one with any power has shown much real appetite .
Neither President Trump nor former vice president Joe Biden seem interested in balancing the nation ’s books .
Trump , having squandered an opportunity to reduce deficits while the economy was good , seems oblivious to the problem , having himself called for a $ 2 trillion infrastructure bill .
Meanwhile , desperate to secure the support of Bernie Sanders ’s voters , Biden has careened leftward , calling for one new program after another .
In just the last few weeks , he has proposed an expansion of Medicare and embraced a plan for free college for students from families earning less than $ 125,000 annually .
The failure to keep federal finances in order was reckless even before this pandemic .
And though it may be politically unpopular to say so at the moment , continuing down the road to fiscal ruin is likely to make the pandemic ’s aftermath more painful and the recovery slower than they otherwise would be .
More from National Review

Germany Likely to Extend Lockdown Measures Until May 3 .
2020-04-15 10:15:33 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Germany is set to agree on an extension of most nationwide lockdown measures until at least May 3 , underlining how European governments are struggling to quickly lift restrictions on public life amid fears of a resurgence of the coronavirus .
Chancellor Angela Merkel is expected to announce the agreement later on Wednesday after talks with leaders from the country ’s 16 states , according to a government official who asked not to be identified discussing confidential information .
Germany ’s contact restrictions have been in place for more than three and a half weeks and they were set to expire on April 19 .
Germany has won plaudits for its aggressive measures to stanch the fallout from the global pandemic .
Comprehensive testing and relative progress in protecting more vulnerable members of society have resulted in a lower fatality rate than European nations such as Italy , Spain and the U.K. Merkel will likely agree with regional leaders that smaller shops should be allowed to open as soon as possible , the government official said .
But the German chancellor is pushing back on calls by some state leaders to partially reopen schools , the official added .
Calls by some regional premiers to move forward with easing restrictions on the economy and social life have met with resistance from public health officials who say it ’s still too early .
The debate highlights how governments across Europe are trying to balance the need to limit the economic damage of containment measures against the risk of another outbreak of the disease .
The number of new cases in Europe has stabilized in recent days , though more than 50,000 people have died and the fatalities continue to climb .
Read more : IMF Urges Post - Pandemic Stimulus to Avoid Depression - Era Mistake
The number of new cases in Germany fell for a sixth day on Wednesday , according to figures from Johns Hopkins University .
There were 2,138 new infections , the lowest increase this month , bringing the total to 132,210 .
Germany has joined fellow European nations in a deep recession , which the government said Wednesday will probably last until mid - year before activity in the continent ’s powerhouse economy picks up again in the second half .
“ Plummeting global demand , supply - chain interruptions , changes in consumer behavior and uncertainty among investors are having a massive impact on Germany , ” the economy ministry said in its latest monthly report .
( Updates with details of debate , economy , case numbers )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

HNA Group halts trading of its note in Shanghai as a hasty plea for time caused panicking investors to flee its debt issues .
2020-04-15 09:43:59 +00:00 .
HNA Group , a former asset acquirer that is trimming its loans under de facto state ward , halted the trading of one of its notes in Shanghai after panicked investors fled , as the economic aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic throws a wrench into one of China 's biggest debt workouts .
Trading of HNA 's 5.99 per cent 3 billion yuan ( US$ 425 million ) note was halted in Shanghai until 2:57pm , after its price plunged by as much as 31 per cent in early transactions , according to a statement to the Shanghai Stock Exchange , where the debt issue is traded .
Investors fled HNA 's debt after the aviation conglomerate , based in the Hainan provincial capital of Haikou , hastily called a teleconference overnight with creditors to postpone paying the principal and interest by 12 months on a separate tranche of 7 - year bonds worth 1.15 billion yuan due today .
The bond had been suspended from trading since April 9 .
The meeting was hastily arranged " because the number of investors is relatively large , " HNA said in a statement , adding that it " sincerely apologises " for the " lack of preparation .
"
Chinese media said invitations were sent out 30 minutes before the meeting 's commencement , and many creditors failed to receive the notice .
SCMP Graphics alt = SCMP Graphics
" Due to the coronavirus pandemic , the Group 's core businesses including aviation , tourism , hotel and commercial [ operations ] are significantly impacted , " HNA said .
" Although we made various efforts to resume work and production , it is hard for the operations and management to recover in the short term , and the pressure on cash flow is tremendous . "
Shares of Hainan Airlines , the HNA Group 's flagship and China 's fourth - largest carrier , fell by as much as 1.3 per cent in a declining market to 1.55 yuan in Shanghai .
Last week , creditors agreed to postpone exercising 292 million yuan of put options on another HNA Group unit West Air , giving the indebted group much - needed breathing space to work out its debt .
The 13 - year old low - cost carrier , operating 35 aircraft from its base in Chongqing in central China , eventually paid 235.9 million yuan of bonds on April 7 , according to the statement .
The deferment on West Air 's put options is a relief for HNA , one of China 's biggest global asset acquirers to emerge in the past two decades .
China 's largest private - sector aviation conglomerate , HNA is under de facto state ward by the local authorities of Hainan province to trim its debt burden , as the government tries to prevent its financial collapse from hurting the broader banking system while the nation 's economic growth slows to its slowest pace in four decades .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
This article originally appeared in the South China Morning Post ( SCMP ) , the most authoritative voice reporting on China and Asia for more than a century .
For more SCMP stories , please explore the SCMP app or visit the SCMP 's Facebook and Twitter pages .
Copyright © 2020 South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd.
All rights reserved .
Copyright ( c ) 2020 .
South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd.
All rights reserved .

Coronavirus: 99-year-old war veteran raising money for NHS passes £5m mark by walking round his garden .
2020-04-15 09:15:35 +00:00 .
A 99 - year - old veteran who challenged himself to walk 100 lengths of his garden has now raised more than £ 5 m.
Tom Moore , who served in India and Burma , originally set out to raise £ 1,000 – but a burst of donations on Tuesday saw that sum pledged on average every 20 seconds .
The fundraiser had topped £ 1 million as of 9 am on Tuesday , before surpassing £ 4 million as of 11 pm .
On Wednesday , Tom ’s twitter account said he had another 10 laps to do today .
Tom , pictured with an armoured vehicle , has raised millions for the health service .
More ‘ It ’s like a fairy land ’
Tom , originally from Keighley in Yorkshire , was aiming to walk 100 lengths of his Bedfordshire garden before he turns 100 on April 30 .
His challenge and fundraising has been praised by a range of famous faces .
Piers Morgan has said he plans to lead a campaign to get him knighted .
Speaking about the fundraising efforts , Mr Moore told BBC News : “ It seems almost like fairy land to think that we started off at 1,000 to a sum of money that ’s not believable , is it ? ”
The veteran has more than exceeded his target .
More
Tom Moore – pictured in his younger years – has raised millions for the NHS after his attempt going viral .
More Mr Moore , who recently had a hip operation , is ahead of schedule with his walking , now hoping to finish the challenge by Thursday .
His fundraiser has led more than 200,000 individual donors to sponsor him for his 100 laps .
Mr Moore , who trained as a civil engineer before enlisting in the army for the Second World War , rising to captain , said : “ I never imagined anything like this , but I ’m so pleased , and I hope it just goes on because the services I got from all these doctors and nurses was absolutely outstanding .
Tom 's efforts have captured the attention of the nation , who have fully backed his bid to raise cash .
More “ And they ’re such nice people too . ”
Donations to NHS Charities Together can be made at www.justgiving.com/fundraising/tomswalkforthenhs

Poland to begin easing coronavirus curbs from Sunday with eye on May vote .
2020-04-15 07:42:48 +00:00 .
By Agnieszka Barteczko and Pawel Florkiewicz WARSAW ( Reuters ) - Poland will gradually lift lockdown measures imposed to contain the new coronavirus from Sunday , the government said on Tuesday as the nation prepares for a presidential election on May 10 .
The ruling nationalist Law and Justice ( PiS ) party has said it wants to ease the economic pain from the pandemic , with restrictions on public life costing Poland some 10 billion zlotys ( £ 1.93 billion ) every day or two .
Several countries in Europe , including Poland 's neighbour , the Czech Republic , have decided to relax restrictions on society as the daily growth of new infections has slowed .
In Poland , the daily rise in new COVID-19 cases has held roughly steady in April after a jump in March , with a dip over Easter .
As of Tuesday , Poland had reported 7,049 confirmed cases of the coronavirus , and 251 deaths , much fewer than other nations in Europe , though testing rates in Poland have also been low .
Authorities said the initial easing of restrictions would allow certain shops to reopen , with details to follow .
" We are slowly unfreezing the economy , I think this is good news , " Health Minister Lukasz Szumowski told private radio broadcaster RMF FM .
New restrictions to minimise contagion from the virus are also being put place , however .
From Thursday , Poles will have to cover their faces with masks or cloth scarves when in public .
Last week , authorities extended school closures until April 26 and restrictions on businesses until April 19 .
Limits on air and rail transport have also been extended and Poland 's borders will remain closed until May 3 .
CONTENTIOUS VOTE
The government 's decision to proceed with the presidential election is contentious , with PiS arguing it must be held on time out of respect for democratic procedure and the opposition accusing PiS of sacrificing public health for political gain .
Opinion polls show incumbent President Andrzej Duda , a PiS ally and longtime frontrunner , rising in popularity with some showing him taking more than 50 % of the vote , enough to win without having to compete in a second round on May 24 .
But surveys also indicate voter turnout could be as low as 30 % .
PiS has said its plan to hold a postal ballot instead of at voting booths , already approved by the PiS - dominated lower house of parliament , the Sejm , would ensure it is safe for the public .
Opposition leaders disagreed .
" I do n't think we are seeing the politics of fighting coronavirus or supporting the economy , but rather political action linked to preparing for the elections , " Adam Szlapka , a member of the centrist and liberal opposition alliance .
Vera Jourova , the European justice commissioner who has rebuked the eurosceptic PiS over judiciary reforms seen by Brussels as anti - democratic , has said parliament 's steps to change the electoral code were rushed and Poles would not be fully informed about postal voting .
Veteran PiS party chief Jaroslaw Kaczynski , Poland 's de facto ruler , hit back at the criticism in an interview with Polish right - wing newspaper Gazeta Polska .
" The EU needs very serious reforms and changes , " said Kaczynski .
" I am certain that the ongoing crisis related to the ( coronavirus ) will make the EU 's weakness clear to many and will highlight the importance of individual nation states . "
PiS has long called for a reform of EU institutions to return more powers to member states from Brussels , which it believes fails to respect national values .
( Reporting by Agnieszka Barteczko , Anna Wlodarczak - Semczuk and Pawel Florkiewicz ; Writing by Joanna Plucinska ;
Editing by Justyna Pawlak and Mark Heinrich )

Saudi Oil Keeps Flooding Market With Output Pact Yet to Begin .
2020-04-14 23:23:22 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Saudi Arabia and other Gulf suppliers may have agreed to cut oil production again starting next month , but by all indications the taps are set to remain wide open until then -- swelling stockpiles for at least a few more weeks .
The kingdom ’s crude exports so far in April stand at 9.3 million barrels a day , according to tanker - tracking data compiled by Bloomberg .
That compares with 6.8 million barrels a day through the first two weeks of March .
What ’s more , there are at least 10 supertankers with the capacity to haul a combined 20 million barrels of oil waiting to load at the Saudi port of Ras Tanura in the coming days .
State - owned oil company Saudi Aramco pledged to boost output to 12.3 million barrels a day in April as it slashed prices in a battle for market share , following the collapse of the three - year old OPEC+ pact in March .
As the coronavirus spread across the globe , governments imposed restrictions on movement and demand declined further , as did prices .
Following marathon international talks this past weekend , there ’s now a new global deal to limit output , with Saudi Arabia agreeing to trim production to 8.5 million barrels a day in May and June .
There ’s been no indication that any producer will close the taps before May , meaning millions of barrels a day of crude entering the market that are n’t needed .
“ The arrangement is from May , ” Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman , the Saudi oil minister , told reporters on a conference call on Monday in reference to the OPEC+ agreement .
“ All of April was sold . ”
In other words , the price war is still on for now .
So far , the market has n’t been impressed .
Global benchmark Brent crude fell by as much as 6 % in London on Tuesday .
Deep Discounts
Another measure -- the official selling prices that traders pay for actual barrels of crude in the physical market -- indicates that Saudi Arabia is still looking to gain market share .
The so - called OSPs for April were already at their lowest in at least three decades .
The kingdom released May ’s prices earlier this week , deepening the discounts to most markets , especially Asia , where the cut was greater than expected .
Traders are awaiting similar figures from other Gulf producers like the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait , which generally follow the Saudi lead on pricing and production .
They also have little incentive to cut output sooner than required .
U.A.E. Energy Minister Suhail Al Mazrouei said on his Twitter account after the meeting that the country “ is committed to reducing production from its current production level of 4.1 m ” barrels a day .
That ’s at least 1 million barrels a day higher than it pumped in March , according to Bloomberg estimates .
All of that oil has to go somewhere , and with demand decimated , there ’s only one obvious destination -- storage .
With cargo nominations already set for this month , Saudi Arabia is n’t likely to reduce shipments to its customers .
But it could trim volumes it ’s sending to storage tanks in Egypt , Rotterdam and Japan .
Without any reduction in those flows , though , stockpiles will continue to build through the remainder of April .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

80 million Americans will get their stimulus checks directly deposited into their bank accounts this week, Treasury says .
2020-04-14 18:18:27 +00:00 .
Reuters
The Treasury Department said over 80 million Americans would see their stimulus checks reflected in their bank accounts by the end of the week .
Under the CARES Act , millions of people will get $ 1,200 checks from the federal government .
" This administration is delivering fast and direct economic assistance to hardworking Americans , and we hope these payments will bring them much - needed relief , " the Treasury secretary said in a statement .
People with dependents younger than 17 will get an additional $ 500 per child .
Visit Business Insider 's homepage for more stories .
The Treasury Department said over 80 million Americans would see their stimulus checks hit their bank accounts this week .
" This administration is delivering fast and direct economic assistance to hardworking Americans , and we hope these payments will bring them much - needed relief , " Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement .
The Treasury also said " tens of millions " of Americans would receive their money via direct deposit by April 15 .
Many Americans are expected to benefit from $ 1,200 checks under the stimulus law that was approved last month by President Donald Trump .
Those who have provided direct - deposit information to the IRS through their tax returns will get the money first .
Paper checks will be sent after April 24 , Business Insider 's Tanza Loudenback reported .
The federal government is using 2019 tax returns — or the 2018 return for people who have n't filed yet , given that the deadline for this year was extended to July 15 — to determine eligibility .
Read more : Billionaire Chamath Palihapitiya has reaped a 997 % return since 2011 .
He shares his 3 - part strategy for today 's coronavirus - hit market — and outlines how he 's mining real estate for opportunities .
Single filers earning below $ 75,000 will get the full check , but the amount scales down until the eligibility cutoff at $ 99,000 .
The same goes for couples making below $ 150,000 .
If they earn above $ 198,000 , the couple no longer qualifies for the money .
Single filers and couples with dependents younger than 17 will get an additional $ 500 per child .
Social Security recipients are also slated to have the stimulus checks sent to them .
People with no deposit information with the IRS will have their money sent to them around September .
About 17 million people have lost their jobs in the past few weeks as the coronavirus pandemic takes a drastic toll on the American economy .
The checks are designed to soften the blow , though they 're only a one - time payment .
Read more : Morningstar pinpoints 32 undervalued stocks to buy right now and provides its analysts ' best ideas for each sector
Read the original article on Business Insider

N.J. Issues Guide on Which Patients Should Get Ventilators .
2020-04-14 11:52:55 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
New Jersey has sent guidance to hospitals on how to allocate scarce ventilators among gravely ill patients stricken with the new coronavirus .
Medical professionals should take into account patients ’ likelihood of surviving until discharge and any other conditions that may limit life expectancy .
Those medical objectives , rather than factors such as age and race , should determine the need to assign ventilators to patients , according to Governor Phil Murphy .
“ No discrimination of any kind , ” he said .
Triage may occur only during a “ crisis standard of care ” at 72 hospitals that treat acute patients , Health Commissioner Judy Persichilli said at a Trenton news conference .
New Jersey has received 1,550 ventilators and needs 950 more from the federal stockpile , administration officials said .
Medical ethicists have wrestled with similar choices as pandemic spread .
The New England Journal of Medicine published guidance last month by a group of medical experts who suggested prioritizing medical workers and patients with the best chance of recovery .
New Jersey officials are girding medical workers even as the state ’s rate of new cases and deaths have slowed .
Persichilli and Murphy said they do n’t believe the guidance will be necessary .
Ventilator Demand
The guidelines , sent to hospitals on April 11 , require staffs not to triage ventilators until they exhaust their supplies of any machines capable of mechanically delivering oxygen , including anesthesia machines and continuous positive air - pressure machines of the kind used by sleep - apnea sufferers , Persichilli said .
Thousands of such machines are available .
As of Sunday night , 7,781 residents were hospitalized in New Jersey in relation to Covid-19 .
About 55 % of the state ’s traditional ventilators are in use by 1,611 Covid-19 patients , according to state data .
Persichilli said one of the most dire case models predicted that 36,000 people would be hospitalized , with more than one - sixth on ventilators .
The discharge rate , meanwhile , was about 14 % , up from 11 % the day before , showing the state is “ slowly making progress , ” Persichilli said .
New Jersey reported a total 64,584 cases and 2,350 deaths , each figure 4 % higher than on Sunday .
In earlier weeks , those numbers had grown by 20 % or more .
The state is second only to New York in terms of the number of cases , and Murphy is a “ couple of beats ” behind New York , where hospitalizations have appeared to plateau .
Murphy said that though the curve is flattening , New Jerseyans must continue to stay indoors and away from each other , part of the orders that he issued on March 21 to help slow the virus ’ spread .
Murphy joined governors of New York , Connecticut , Pennsylvania , Rhode Island , Massachusetts and Delaware who agreed to a regional approach to reopening workplaces , retail businesses and government services in the coming weeks .
Otherwise , he said , the U.S. Northeast would never see the pandemic ’s end .
“ We are at risk of a Covid-19 boomerang , and we will be right back to Square One , and that ’s the last thing we need , ” Murphy said .
( Updates with triage criteria starting in second paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Amazon is reportedly ready to start shipping nonessential items again .
2020-04-14 07:30:35 +00:00 .
Fear not : Everything you used to go out in public for will reportedly soon end up at your door once again .
When the COVID-19 pandemic overwhelmed its warehouses and delivery capabilities , Amazon deprioritized shipments of " nonessential " items and blocked third - party sellers from restocking those products .
But after hiring thousands of warehouse and delivery workers over the past few weeks , Amazon is ready to get back to normal , people familiar with the matter tell The Wall Street Journal .
Even before social distancing measures became widespread and deterred Americans from going to stores themselves , Amazon saw a massive surge in orders amid the new coronavirus ' rise .
That led the company to tell third - party sellers on March 16 it would only accept shipments of " household staples , medical supplies , and other high - demand products , " which it would in turn ship out to shoppers .
Third - party sellers protested the decision , saying it would devastate their businesses .
Amazon also announced on March 16 it was hiring 100,000 more warehouse , distribution , and delivery workers to accommodate the influx .
The company 's hiring spree seems to have filled some much - needed gaps , and so it " will allow more products into our fulfillment centers " later this week , an Amazon spokesperson told the Journal .
" Products will be limited by quantity to enable us to continue prioritizing products and protecting employees , while also ensuring most selling partners can ship goods into our facilities . "
Workers at a Staten Island , New York , Amazon warehouse recently held a strike to protest the company 's handling of an employee 's coronavirus case ; employees at the Amazon - owned grocery chain Whole Foods also called in sick en masse to demand increased workplace protections .
More stories from theweek.com Trump adviser Peter Navarro made a bad bet 60 Minutes did n't cover pandemic preparedness under Obama
Trump berates CBS reporter for noting Trump 's own coronavirus video suggests he did nothing in February
Trump claims he has ' total ' authority over when states can reopen

Facial protection will be the norm, says senior World Health Organisation doctor .
2020-04-14 07:21:39 +00:00 .
A senior World Health Organisation ( WHO ) figure has said that facial protection is going to become the norm in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak .
Dr David Nabarro , the WHO ’s Covid-19 envoy , said that people would need to become accustomed to a “ new reality ” .
He told the BBC : “ Some form of facial protection , I ’m sure , is going to become the norm , not least to give people reassurance .
“ But , I would say , do n’t imagine that you can do what you like when you are wearing a mask . ”
The use of masks has been a major feature of the pandemic , with healthcare workers seeking them as part of their protection equipment .
But the WHO does not recommend them for widespread use and has raised concerns there could be a shortage of masks for medical workers if they are bought up by the general public .
The UK Government has previously said there were no plans to change the current guidance on masks , adding they were not necessary for use by the general public when out and about .
Speaking at the daily press conference on Friday , Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the Government will “ follow the science ” , which he says states that face masks “ do n’t have a material impact outside of those settings which Public Health England have set out ” .
On Monday , Sir Patrick Vallance , the Government ’s chief scientific adviser said the situation with masks was being monitored .
He said : “ The evidence on masks is much more persuasive for masks stopping you giving it to somebody than it is for you preventing you catching it .
“ We have a review ongoing at the moment on the evidence around masks .
“ If that review concludes that the position should change , we will of course make that recommendation and if it stays the same we will make that clear as well . ”
Meanwhile , Dr Nabarro added that people ’s lifestyles would also need to change as a result of the virus .
Chief Scientific Adviser Sir Patrick Vallance spoke on the issue of masks during the daily press conference ( Andrew Parsons/10 Downing Street / Crown Copyright / PA )
More
He said : “ Because this virus is n’t going to go away , and we do n’t know whether people who have had the virus stay immune afterwards and will not get it again .
“ And , we do n’t know when we will have a vaccine .
“ So , what we are saying is ‘ get societies defended ’ .
“ Yes , we will have to wear masks .
“ Yes , there will have to be more physical distancing .
“ Yes , we must protect the vulnerable .
“ But , most importantly , we must all learn how to interrupt transmission . ”
Comparing the pandemic to what happened “ 25 years ago ( when ) we all learned about HIV / Aids and its relationship with sex ” , he added : “ We changed , and we adapted and we learned how to live with these new realities .
“ We have also got to live with the new reality of life with Covid . ”

Vietnam Stocks Become World’s Best After Extreme Turmoil in March .
2020-04-14 06:05:19 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Vietnam ’s stock market , which in March tumbled the most since 2001 , is now reviving .
The benchmark VN Index has rebounded 15 % in April , becoming the world ’s best performer , data compiled by Bloomberg show .
That follows last month ’s 25 % slump on concern about the coronavirus impact .
The gauge , which has been in a bear market since 2018 , is trading at about 11 times estimated earnings for the next year , less than the five - year average of 14 times .
“ Vietnamese investors on the ground feel that the government has taken swift and effective measures to manage the virus outbreak , ” said Patrick Mitchell , director of institutional equities at ACB Securities Co. in Ho Chi Minh City .
“ The market is dominated by retail flows and the buyers have come back to super cheap valuations in the companies they like , so it makes sense to buy more at these levels with a longer investment view . ”
Like many other countries , Vietnam has been in isolation since April 1 to avoid further virus spread , even though the number of confirmed cases has remained below 300 .
The government is now considering extending previous mandates such as wearing masks and maintaining a distance among people after the lockdown ends April 15 .
The nation is also preparing a 180 trillion dong ( $ 7.7 billion ) stimulus package for companies and 61.6 trillion dong in relief for citizens who have been economically hurt during the pandemic .
The VN Index fell as much as 31 % this year , hitting its lowest level since December 2016 on March 24 .
While it has rebounded 15 % since then , it remains marred in a bear market while Southeast Asian peers Thailand , Indonesia and the Philippines entered bull territory in recent days .
The Vietnamese gauge , which was down 0.9 % as of Tuesday ’s midday break , remains 37 % below its record in 2018 .
“ It seems the market is looking beyond 2020 earnings as there are some very well run businesses especially in consumption - related sectors , which were trading at very attractive valuations , ” said Ruchir Desai , a fund manager at
Asia Frontier Capital Ltd.
“ Any major increases from here could suggest it could be getting ahead of itself as the near - term hit to exports , tourism and income levels is still to be felt fully . ”
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

China’s online education drive to boost demand for PCs, tablets, 5G and cloud services, says IDC .
2020-04-14 05:28:30 +00:00 .
PCs , tablets , 5G - powered live streams , and cloud platforms are all expected to see more demand from the education sector in China , with the coronavirus outbreak accelerating a digital shift , according to a report from research firm IDC China .
The hardware market , including tablets , smartphones and PCs , will see a surge in demand from schools and parents , to cover younger students and those from lower - tier cities and regions , according to the IDC report released on Monday .
Livestreams powered by next - generation 5 G networks and cloud - based learning platforms are also expected to become more mainstream even as the pandemic gradually subsides , says IDC .
“ The novel coronavirus pandemic was an important test of China ’s education system – its deployment [ of new tech ] and responsiveness .
It has resulted in more of a focus on smart hardware , software services , and online education , ” said Su Hong , an IDC research manager specialising in the consumer market .
Inside China Tech Podcasts : Has the pandemic democratised education in China ?
China ’s Ministry of Education announced on January 27 it was postponing the start of the spring semester due to the novel coronavirus outbreak , posing a challenge to a sector which has 276 million students , including 189 million K12 students and 38.3 million college students according to data as of 2018 .
China ’s for - profit education companies are also struggling to recruit students and offer high - quality offline training amid the health crisis .
China in February asked schools to use online education platforms to allow teaching and learning at home via recordings , live streaming , and cloud - based learning platforms .
The national cloud learning platform launched by the Ministry of Education on February 17 provides learning materials for primary to senior high schools and enables up to 50 million students to use the platform at the same time .
PC makers caught off guard as shipments unable to meet user demand Tech giants Tencent Holdings and Alibaba Group Holding have offered free tools like Tencent Classroom and DingTalk to help schools .
Education companies such as New Oriental and Squirrel AI also stopped their offline teaching and transferred all classes to online platforms since January .
The digital push has increased demand for smooth internet connections and smart hardware .
China ’s three major telecom carriers – China Mobile , China Unicom , and China Telecom – have all increased the number of servers and bandwidth .
Meanwhile , China ’s roll - out of commercial 5 G networks is also expected to benefit the online education sector .
As the pandemic eases , IDC predicts an online - to - offline education model to emerge , allowing students to get the benefits of both teaching methods .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
This article China ’s online education drive to boost demand for PCs , tablets , 5 G and cloud services , says IDC first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Democrats and GOP at impasse over coronavirus small business relief .
2020-04-14 03:56:45 +00:00 .
Democratic and Republican leaders are stalemated on small business relief negotiations , leaving an uncertain path forward as coronavirus - related measures continue to keep most Americans under stay - home orders .
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer announced in a joint statement Monday that they 're demanding more help for Americans be included in the the small business loan program .
They warned that state governments , local governments and hospitals are " oversubscribed " and " need more money now . "
The two leaders are also calling for more food stamp funding and a national system for rapid testing and personal protective equipment .
In addition , they said the small business program should be altered to ensure that loans are properly given out to underserved communities .
" We have real problems facing this country , and it 's time for the Republicans to quit the political posturing by proposing bills they know will not pass either chamber and get serious and work with us towards a solution , " they said in a joint statement .
On Friday Schumer said that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin had agreed to pursue bipartisan negotiations in both chambers .
Top White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said Monday that he expects the Small Business Administration Paycheck Protection Program ( PPP ) to run out of money this week — by April 17 — and urged Congress to provide an additional $ 250 billion for the program .
" We are at 661,000 loans approved .
Listen to this — $ 168 billion — $ 168 billion has been approved … .By
the way , our estimates are we are going to run out of money for the small business thing April 17 , " Kudlow told Fox Business News .
Senator Dan Sullivan , Republican of Alaska , who presided over a brief pro forma session Monday , told reporters the GOP bill is needed now as the money for small businesses is running out .
" The priority right now should be the small businesses , " Sullivan told reporters .
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy refused Democratic demands in a joint statement , urging lawmakers to approve an increase for PPP funding before the program " runs dry .
" The two said additional proposals from Democrats can wait until the next larger package .
" Republicans reject Democrats ' reckless threat to continue blocking job - saving funding unless we renegotiate unrelated programs which are not in similar peril .
This will not be Congress 's last word on COVID-19 , but this crucial program needs funding now .
American workers can not be used as political hostages , " McConnell and McCarthy said over the weekend .
Last week , the Senate failed to approve legislation that would expand PPP funding .
Republican hoped to approve an additional $ 250 billion for the program but Senate Democrats held up the legislation by unanimous consent .
The Senate adjourned today in a pro forma and will gavel back in on April 16 .
The House will have a pro forma session on April 14 and 17 .
The negotiations continue while lawmakers from both chambers are working remotely from their homes but both chambers remain at a standstill .
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer announced Monday that the House will not be expected to meet until May 4 .
Hoyer said members would be given " sufficient notice " to return to Washington , DC . , for any " critical legislation " related to the coronavirus .
At this point , the Senate is still scheduled to be back in the Capitol on April 20 , despite increased doubts from senators .
Coronavirus relief funding stalls in the Senate Trump questioned on coronavirus response
Andrea Bocelli 's " Music for Hope " reaches nearly 30 million views

Emmanuel Macron promises return to 'happy days' after extending coronavirus lockdown in France .
2020-04-14 00:15:36 +00:00 .
Coronavirus Article Bar with counter ..
More
Emmanuel Macron is extending France 's lockdown to curb the coronavirus outbreak until May 11 , saying that progress had been made but the battle not yet won .
The French president 's announcement follows Italy in extending the lockdown but without easing restrictive measures as in Spain .
Mr Macron said the tense situation in hospitals in Paris and eastern France meant there could be no let - up in the country .
Since March 17 , France 's 67 million people have been ordered to stay at home except to buy food , go to work , seek medical care or exercise on their own .
The lockdown was originally scheduled to end on Tuesday .
" I fully understand the effort I 'm asking from you , " Mr Macron told the nation in a televised address at the end of the lockdown 's fourth week , adding that the current rules were working .
" When will we be able to return to a normal life ?
I would love to be able to answer you .
But to be frank , I have to humbly tell you we do n't have definitive answers , " he said .
Mr Macron said the lockdown measures would have to continue .
French people are only permitted to leave the house for essential trips - SEBASTIEN SALOM - GOMIS / AFP via Getty Images
More Schools and shops would progressively reopen on May 11 , Mr Macron said .
But restaurants , hotels , cafes and cinemas would have to remain shut longer , he added .
International arrivals from non - European countries will remain prohibited until further notice .
Mr Macron , whose government has faced criticism over a shortage of face masks and testing kits , said that by May 11 , France would be able to test anyone presenting Covid-19 symptoms and give non - professional face masks to the public .
Mr Macron also said he had asked his government to present this week new financial aid for families and students in need .
Acknowledging his country had not been sufficiently prepared early on to face the challenges posed by the outbreak of the new coronavirus , Mr Macron appeared to seek a humble tone in contrast to the war - like rhetoric of his previous speeches .
Coronavirus podcast newest episode
More Story continues " Were we prepared for this crisis ?
On the face of it , not enough .
But we coped , " he said .
" This moment , let 's be honest , has revealed cracks , shortages .
Like every country in the world , we have lacked gloves , hand gel , we have n't been able to give out as many masks as we wanted to our health professionals . "
The French , long accustomed to being told their high taxes paid for the " best healthcare in the world " , have been dismayed by the rationing of critical drugs , face masks and equipment and have watched with envy the situation in neighbouring Germany .
Mr Macron 's acknowledgment of the shortcomings was broadly well - received .
" It 's not every day you hear a president offer a mea culpa and dare to say ' we have no definitive answers ' .
Reassuring and necessary sincerity , " analyst Maxime Sbaihi of the think tank GenerationLibre said .
After a relentless increase until the first week of April , the number of patients in French hospitals ' intensive care units has started to decline , prompting health authorities to call a plateau in the epidemic .
But if French hospitals are just about coping , helped by a massive effort to transfer patients by plane , helicopter or even high - speed train from hospitals in the east and Paris to the west , nursing homes have been overwhelmed .
By Monday , the coronavirus had claimed 14,967 lives in France , the fourth - highest death toll in the world , with more than 98,076 confirmed cases , according to official figures .
" We 'll have better days , and we 'll return to happy days , " Mr Macron said .

Gyms face legal action over rent .
2020-04-13 23:21:26 +00:00 .
Gym and leisure centre bosses say they face being evicted during the coronavirus crisis over non - payment of rent .
Trade body UKActive said urgent action is needed to safeguard exercise venues as unscrupulous landlords use a loophole to threaten eviction .
New rules to protect commercial tenants were introduced last month .
But they do n't prevent landlords from taking steps to force tenants to pay rent withheld because of the lockdown .
" A worrying number have decided to pursue statutory demand notices or winding up orders , " said Huw Edwards , chief executive of UKActive .
" We need the government to act now to direct ... that landlords can not do this .
" With 2,800 gyms at risk of permanent closure , and 100,000 jobs at stake , time is of the essence . "
Section 82 of the government 's Coronavirus Act 2020 came into force on 25 March to help protect commercial tenants .
It banned the forfeiture of commercial leases until 30 June 2020 - or longer if the government deems necessary - for non - payment of rent .
However , the Act does not prevent landlords from taking certain actions , including Commercial Rent Arrears Recovery ( CRAR ) , making a debt claim , issuing a statutory demand , or commencing winding - up proceedings - each of which is lethal to businesses with no income .
The BBC has approached the Department for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy for comment .
The trade body says it has evidence to show a growing number of cases where landlords are planning to instigate legal proceedings against operators .
UKActive said it expects the first cases to start this week and warned that pubs , restaurants , cafes , cinemas , and retailers could face similar threats .
" Many of our members are faced with the harsh reality of no revenues for a long period , so must take steps to preserve cash , including not paying their rent for the quarter ahead , " said Mr Edwards .
He said some landlords have engaged in constructive discussions to reduce the pressure on tenants , however , a number have decided to pursue statutory demand notices or winding up orders .
Waiver of rent David Lloyd Leisure , which owns David Lloyd Clubs , appealed to one landlord to request a waiver of rental payments due on 25 March 2020 until the crisis eases and the government allows its clubs to re - open .
The request was refused immediately by the landlord and was instead met with the threat of legal action through the issuing of a statutory notice .
" This situation is unfortunately entirely outside of our control , " said David Lloyd boss Glenn Earlham .
" We want to work together with landlords to ensure we can survive this pandemic and emerge with businesses able to continue to pay rent and other costs in the future . "
PureGym has seen similar instances across its facilities .
" The burden of dealing with the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic continues to fall on commercial tenants rather than being shared equitably by landlords as well , " said Humphrey Cobbold , chief executive of PureGym .
" Time is of the absolute essence , given that proceedings such as statutory demands and winding up orders threaten to force companies into insolvency within days of being issued . "

Italy’s New Coronavirus Cases Fall as Daily Death Toll Rises .
2020-04-13 21:03:36 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Italy reported a lower number of new coronavirus cases Monday -- even as daily fatalities rose -- three days after the government extended a lockdown with only slight concessions to businesses demanding a restart of the economy .
There were 3,153 new cases , the fewest registered since April 7 , compared with 4,092 a day earlier , civil protection officials said .
Italy registered 566 deaths linked to the virus in the last 24 hours , compared with 431 the day before .
That brought the total number of fatalities to 20,465 .
Recoveries reached 35,435 .
Confirmed cases in the country now total 159,516 .
The number has risen since the government decided to ramp up testing , with the number of those assessed reaching 1.05 million Monday and more previously unreported cases being discovered .
The number of patients in intensive care declined for the 10th straight day .
“ We ’re still in Phase 1 , for sure , ” Giovanni Rezza , the head of the infectious diseases department at Rome ’s national health institute , told a news conference .
“ We see positive signals , but the number of deaths is still high , as it reflects previous cases of contagion . ”
Lockdown Extension
On Friday , Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte announced he was extending Italy ’s nationwide lockdown until May 3 , rejecting pressure from businesses and opposition politicians who ’ve clamored to restart the economy .
Conte held out the prospect of a gradual resumption of normal life after the lockdown is lifted , although strict health protocols would remain in force .
He named Vittorio Colao , former chief executive officer of Vodafone Group Plc , to head a task force that will help map Italy ’s exit from the restrictions .
The country “ ca n’t wait for the virus to disappear completely , ” Conte said .
The Veneto region is easing some measures as of Tuesday , including reopening outdoor markets and allowing jogging more than 200 meters away from home , Governor Luca Zaia said on Facebook .
“ We need to guarantee health safety but , at the same time , to make efforts to accelerate the re - opening , ” former Italian Finance Minister Pier Carlo Padoan said in an interview to SkyTG24 .
Still , schools might not restart before the summer break .
Franco Locatelli , head of Italy ’s public health institute , told Rai2 TV Sunday that he believes the government should consider leaving classrooms shut until the next school year .
( Updates with comment in fourth paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Macron targets easing of France virus lockdown from May 11 .
2020-04-13 21:03:31 +00:00 .
France 's lockdown to contain the coronavirus outbreak will be extended until May 11 , President Emmanuel Macron said on Monday , but added that the restrictions could start to be eased from then if current positive trends continued .
While giving France a concrete date for a possible ending of strict confinement , Macron acknowledged that the country had not been prepared for a crisis that has killed nearly 15,000 people in the country .
" The strict confinement must continue until Monday , May 11 , " Macron said in a TV address , adding that it could then be eased " if we continue to be good citizens , responsible and respect the rules , and if the spread of the virus has indeed continued to slow " .
The lockdown has confined the French to their homes since March 17 with only brief trips allowed outside for shopping and other essential errands .
The epidemic is " beginning to steady ... hope is returning , " he said , acknowledging France was " obviously not sufficiently prepared " when its first cases were reported last February .
" We lacked gowns , gloves , gel and we were not able to hand out as many masks as we would have liked , " he said .
Schools and daycare centres could gradually reopen as well as some businesses , he said .
But cafes , restaurants and other places with large public gatherings will remain shut and universities are unlikely to resume any classes or testing until the summer , he added .
Older and vulnerable people will have to continue to stay home and the government will provide face masks to others when they venture outside .
" For the most exposed workers and in certain situations such as public transport , their use could become systematic , " Macron said .
" May 11 will be the start of a new phase .
It will be progressive and the rules can be adapted according to our results , " he said .
Testing capacities will be ramped up as well so that anyone showing symptoms can be diagnosed , with those testing positive placed in quarantine -- a measure doctors have urged as a key method for containing the outbreak .
The government will also work on developing an app for phones that could identify people who had come into contact with an infected person .
- ' Better days'- France 's daily death rate was once again below its peak level on Monday -- 574 new deaths from COVID-19 for a total of 14,967 since the outbreak began .
The number of people in intensive care fell for the fifth day in a row , with 24 fewer people , leaving 6,821 in a serious condition .
" We will have better days , " Macron said .
" And the virtues allowing us to hold out today are the ones that will help us build our future : our solidarity , our confidence , and our will . "
A study by France 's INSERM health research institute and others published Sunday warned that lifting the confinement rules too soon could spur a " crushing second wave " .
Critics say Macron and his government have muddled their coronavirus messages , in particular by initially claiming that widespread use of face masks was not necessary , only to say weeks later that people should be wearing them in public .
leb - jri - js - sjw / jxb
The empty Grand Plage , one of the most beautiful beaches in Biarritz , southwestern France , on the twenty - eighth day of a coronavirus lockdown which President Emmanuel Macron said will be extended until May 11 , 2020
Macron , seen on multiple monitors in Paris during a speech to the nation from the Elysee Palace , said restrictions could start to be eased after May 11 , 2020 if positive trends continued

Coronavirus, then tornado damage: For some South Carolina residents, there's 'nowhere to go' .
2020-04-13 20:29:36 +00:00 .
SENECA , S.C. – Jermaine Gaines heard the emergency alert on his phone around 3 a.m.
Monday warning him of possible tornadoes .
He did n’t take it too seriously at first , but then he heard the wind and debris pelting the walls of his childhood home .
Not knowing what else to do , Gaines ran to the other bedroom , where he used his body to shield his 66 - year - old mother as the storm passed .
In the cold light of day , Gaines picked his way around the white - sided house .
He found his lawnmower hanging from a branch among the mess of fallen trees in his backyard where a bottle of gin lay next to a loaf of bread .
“ Who knows how that got there , ” he said .
Brutal storms moving into the East : Harrowing night of tornadoes in the South leaves 22 dead
A severe storm that brought a tornado in the area destroyed many homes and structures in Seneca , South Carolina on Monday , April 13 , 2020 .
More
Another surprise awaited Gaines out front – his porch is gone , the roof is punched open .
But , as he cleared his yard of debris , Gaines realized something else was missing – Oreo , his black and white cat , was outside when the tornado hit his home .
“ I have n’t seen him yet . ”
' What else can be thrown at us ? '
On a few quiet residential blocks of Seneca , South Carolina , homes , apartments and restaurants were battered by a tornado – whose wind speeds and size were not yet known – touched down around 3 a.m. local time Monday , according to the debris field analyzed by the National Weather Service .
On Monday morning , neighbors walked in small groups beneath blue skies .
Some wore masks to protect against the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic .
Most did n’t .
Jermaine Gaines cleans up debris from his yard after a tornado destroyed much of his childhood home Monday , April 13 , 2020 .
More
Others sat in folding metal chairs , staring in disbelief at fallen trees , shattered windows , missing roofs and downed power lines .
Kristy Martin said it was like a freight truck barreling down her usually quiet street .
First , she heard the hail .
Then , the wind and finally , rain .
She waited out the storm in her basement before heading to Dinas Brothers Restaurant , where she is both a co - owner and manager .
“ I did n’t believe it was this bad until I saw it , ” Martin said in the parking lot of the cafe , her back silhouetted by the ruins of the cafe 's storage shed , itself about a 100 yards from its normal spot .
Jermaine Gaines , right , and Frederick Oglesby stand outside Gaines ' childhood home in Seneca , South Carolina , on Monday , April 13 , 2020 .
More
“ What else can be thrown at us ? ”
Debra Simpson asked as she helped Martin and her sons clean up their cafe .
They estimate the damage will run beyond $ 100,000 .
John Sims said it was the tornado was a familiar sound , like the cyclones he ’s lived through in his native Australia .
“ Things were already hard with the lockdown , now we ai n’t got nowhere to go .
All our stuff is gone , ” Vaneshia Wilson said of her second - floor apartment , where winds took the roof .
Wilson lost all her belongings .
Her son 's , too .
“ I do n’t even have the words ...
it ’s that unbelievable . ”
This article originally appeared on Greenville News : South Carolina tornado damage adds to coronavirus quarantine stress

Sailor on USS Theodore Roosevelt dies after contracting coronavirus .
2020-04-13 20:08:24 +00:00 .
A sailor assigned to the USS Theodore Roosevelt , the Navy ship at the center of a controversy that led to the resignation of Acting Navy Secretary Thomas Modly , died Monday from coronavirus - related complications , military officials announced .
The sailor , whose identity was withheld upon notification of family , is the first reported coronavirus death on the aircraft carrier .
The sailor had tested positive on March 30 and was admitted Thursday to U.S. Naval Hospital Guam 's intensive care unit after being found unresponsive .
The Navy said other sailors had attempted CPR .
Full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak " Like other Sailors in isolation , he received medical checks twice daily from Navy medical teams , " the Navy said in a news release .
Defense Secretary Mark Esper added in a statement that the Pentagon is " deeply saddened by the loss " and " we remain committed to protecting our personnel and their families while continuing to assist in defeating this outbreak . "
Other details about the sailor were not immediately available .
The sailor 's coronavirus - related death is the first of an active - duty service member of the U.S. military , and follows that of a New Jersey National Guardsman who died from COVID-19 complications in March .
The Roosevelt has been docked in Guam , a small island in the Pacific Ocean and an unincorporated territory of the United States , since March 27 for a scheduled port visit for resupply and crew rest .
At least 550 crew members who were aboard the ship tested positive for COVID-19 more than a week after its captain , Brett Crozier , was relieved of duty on April 2 for sounding the alarm about an outbreak on the Roosevelt in a letter leaked to the press .
The Navy last week said that 92 percent of its roughly 4,800 - member crew have been tested for COVID-19 , with more than 3,600 of them getting back negative results .
Modly initially ridiculed Crozier for his remarks about the growing coronavirus outbreak on the ship , and moved to oust the captain .
Upon his dismissal , however , sailors gave Crozier , who had taken command of the Roosevelt last November , a hero 's send - off .
Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak
Modly then traveled from Washington to Guam on April 6 , offering stinging remarks about Crozier broadcast over the Roosevelt 's loudspeakers and later leaked publicly .
The acting Navy secretary accused Crozier of a " betrayal of trust " and said he was either " too naive or too stupid to be a commanding officer of a ship like this . "
His words drew criticism from lawmakers and disapproval from President Donald Trump , and Modly apologized to Crozier before submitting his own resignation last Tuesday .
" I believe , precisely because he is not naive and stupid , that he sent his alarming email with the intention of getting it into the public domain in an effort to draw public attention to the situation on his ship , " Modly said in a statement .

Coronavirus: Police given extra stop and search powers after two shot and one stabbed in 20 minutes .
2020-04-13 10:03:10 +00:00 .
Police have been given additional stop and search powers after two men were shot and another stabbed in the same city within the space of 20 minutes .
The three incidents happened in Liverpool last Saturday between around 9.55pm and 10.15pm .
A section 60 order saw Merseyside Police handed extra powers to stop any males between the ages of 14 and 50 in the Toxteth Area .
These powers came into effect on Sunday – eight days after the attacks – and will cease on Monday at 4 am .
Forces across the country have already been granted additional powers to enforce the social distancing during the UK 's lockdown , under the Coronavirus Act 2020 .
Three men have already been arrested in connection with the violent incidents in Toxteth amid ongoing investigations .
The shootings took place on Gwent Street and Hatherley Close , and the stabbing on Carter Street .
The stop and search order " comes as a direct result of the above incident and is specifically designed to minimise serious violence in the area " , Merseyside Police said .
In Manchester , police are also appealing for witnesses after a " shocking " burglary at the home of a vulnerable man in his 50s .
The balaclava - clad offender struck at a property in Droylsden 's ​Bell Clough Road at about 9.30pm , stealing cash , bank cards , a mobile phone and a number of iPads .
The man was not injured in the robbery .
" This is a shocking incident in which a vulnerable adult has been burgled at time where we should be coming together and helping each other , " said Detective Inspector Dave Donlan , of Greater Manchester Police .
" It 's extremely saddening to be investigating crimes like this
but I want to make it clear that we will do everything we can to bring those responsible to justice .
" With more people indoors at the moment , I am hopeful that someone , somewhere , may have seen something that can assist our inquiries . "
Meanwhile , a spate of coronavirus - related crime continues , with a 37 - year - old man charged with assaulting an emergency worker after allegedly coughing on a police officer .
Nottinghamshire Police said Stuart Hunter is alleged to have committed the offence after being arrested following a domestic incident in Bulwell early on Saturday .
Mr Hunter , of Chisholm Way , Nottingham , has been charged with actual bodily harm and common assault relating to the domestic incident .
He has also been charged with assault on an emergency worker in relation to his contact with officers following his arrest .
He will be kept in custody until an appearance at Nottingham Magistrates ' Court on Easter Monday , Nottinghamshire Police said .
Additional reporting by PA
Read more
Tracking the coronavirus outbreak around the world in maps and charts
When can we really expect coronavirus to end ?
Everything you need to know on supermarket delivery slots
The dirty truth about washing your hands Listen to the latest episode of The Independent Coronavirus Podcast

U.K.'s Boris Johnson leaves hospital after personal COVID-19 battle .
2020-04-13 04:35:30 +00:00 .
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson left the London hospital where he was being treated for COVID-19 and returned home Sunday , Downing Street confirmed .
A spokesperson said Johnson would continue his recovery at Chequers , the prime minister 's country residence in the county of Buckinghamshire , north of London .
" On the advice of his medical team , the PM will not be immediately returning to work , " the spokesperson said , adding that Johnson wanted to thank London 's St. Thomas Hospital , where he was treated , " for the brilliant care he has received . "
Full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak Johnson , 55 , was admitted to St. Thomas ' Hospital on April 5 after having experienced " persistent " symptoms of COVID-19 , the disease associated with the coronavirus .
He spent three nights in the intensive care unit , where he received oxygen treatment but did not need to be put on a ventilator .
The sudden deterioration of his health jolted some Britons and sparked concern for his well - being and the country 's leadership during the pandemic .
Johnson left intensive care , returning to a regular ward , on Thursday and was said to have been in " good spirits , " sitting up in bed and later taking short walks .
The prime minister also thanked the National Health Service for the " brilliant care " he had received .
Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab has been standing in for Johnson while he was being treated , and the prime minister will likely face pressure to confirm when lockdown measures in Britain — in place since March 23 — may be eased .
Download the NBC News app for full coverage and alerts about the coronavirus outbreak
Johnson was last seen in public clapping for National Health Service workers in Downing Street before his admission to the hospital as part of a weekly clap - for - carers campaign .
His pregnant partner , Carrie Symonds , 32 , has previously said on Twitter that she had recovered from corona - like symptoms despite not having been tested .
Johnson announced his positive test results March 27 in a video online , saying that his symptoms were mild and that he was self - isolating .
The prime minister had previously insisted that the United Kingdom should continue to follow social distancing measures and the advice of public health officials .
Deaths from the coronavirus have continued to mount in Britain .
As of Sunday , 9,875 deaths in U.K. hospitals have been recorded among more than 78,000 confirmed cases .

New York medical workers ended an overnight shift treating COVID-19 patients only to find their tires had been slashed .
2020-04-12 19:57:03 +00:00 .
Shutterstock Medical workers on the front lines of battling the coronavirus discovered their tires were slashed after leaving a shift at the New York - Presbyterian Hudson Valley Hospital in Cortlandt , New York .
According to police , 22 vehicles in the hospital 's parking lot were found with gashes .
Police have arrested Daniel Hall , 29 , as a suspect in the incident .
Visit Insider 's homepage for more stories .
After a grueling overnight shift treating COVID-19 patients in the center of the US outbreak , medical workers were preparing to go home only to discover their tires had been slashed while they were working .
New York state police received a complaint of " criminal mischief " around 7 a.m. on April 10 from a group of hospital workers at New York - Presbyterian Hudson Valley Hospital in Cortlandt , New York .
According to a press release from New York State police , the tires of 22 vehicles in the hospital 's parking lot belonging to health workers , including nurses , had been sliced while they were at work .
New York - Presbyterian officials expressed disbelief at the slight against hospital workers , who have emerged as heroes putting their lives on the line amid the coronavirus outbreak .
New York - Presbyterian also noted that they would pay for the damage done to their employee 's cars .
" We were shocked to hear of this incident , especially at this time when our employees are working tirelessly and courageously " through the COVID-19 pandemic , the officials said in a statement to the Journal News .
The news came after dozens of local police officers and firefighters gathered outside the New York - Presbyterian Hospital Thursday evening to applaud the hospital workers for their life - saving efforts , the Journal News reported .
New York has become the center of the US outbreak with over 181,000 infections and 8,000 deaths , according to data collected by John Hopkins .
" What our hospital is focusing on today is the beautiful tribute given by our first responders last night , " the hospital statement said .
After an investigation , the New York State Police in conjunction with the city of Peekskill Police Department arrested Danie Hall , 29 , as a suspect in the incident .
Local authorities found PCP , a mind - altering drug , in his possession at the time of his arrest .
Hall has been charged with criminal mischief , criminal possession of a controlled substance , auto stripping — all of which are felonies .
Hall was arraigned before the Westchester County Court and remanded to the Westchester County Jail .
The judge set his bail at $ 1,500 .
Hall is due at a Peekskill , New York , court on May 18 and at a Cortlandt , New York court on May 21 , 2020 .
It is unclear if Hall has an attorney at this time .
Read the original article on Insider

OPEC, Russia approve biggest ever oil cut amid coronavirus pandemic .
2020-04-12 19:26:55 +00:00 .
By Katya Golubkova , Rania El Gamal and Ahmad Ghaddar BAKU / DUBAI / LONDON ( Reuters ) - OPEC , Russia and other oil producing nations agreed on Sunday to cut output by a record amount , representing around 10 % of global supply , to support oil prices amid the coronavirus pandemic .
The group , known as OPEC+ , agreed to reduce output by 9.7 million barrels per day ( bpd ) for May - June , after four days of marathon talks and following pressure from U.S. President Donald Trump to arrest the price decline .
Two OPEC+ sources told Reuters the deal had been sealed in a video conference on Sunday , and the agreement was confirmed in a statement from by Kazakhstan 's energy ministry .
In the biggest oil output cut ever , the countries will keep gradually decreasing curbs on production in place for two years until April 2022 .
Measures to slow the spread of the coronavirus have destroyed demand for fuel and driven down oil prices , straining budgets of oil producers and hammering the U.S. shale industry , which is more vulnerable to low prices due to its higher costs .
Trump had threatened OPEC leader Saudi Arabia with oil tariffs and other measures if it did not fix the market 's oversupply problem as low prices have put the U.S. oil industry , the world 's largest , in severe distress .
OPEC+ has said it wanted producers outside the group , such as the United States , Canada , Brazil and Norway , to cut a further 5 % or 5 million bpd .
Canada and Norway had signalled willingness to cut and the United States , where legislation makes it hard to act in tandem with cartels such as OPEC , said its output would fall steeply by itself this year due to low prices .
The signing of the OPEC+ deal had been delayed since Thursday , however , after Mexico balked at the production cuts it was asked to make .
Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said on Friday that U.S. President Donald Trump had offered to make extra U.S. cuts on his behalf , an unusual offer by a Trump who has long railed against OPEC .
Trump said Washington would help Mexico by picking up " some of the slack " and being reimbursed later .
He did not say how this would work .
Global oil demand is estimated to have fallen by a third as more than 3 billion people are locked down in their homes due to the coronavirus outbreak .
A 15 % cut in supply might not be enough to arrest the price decline , banks Goldman Sachs and UBS predicted last week , saying Brent prices would fall back to $ 20 per barrel from $ 32 at the moment and $ 70 at the start of the year .
( Reporting by Reuters OPEC Team , Alex Lawler in London , Lamine Chikhi in Algiers ; Nailia Bagirova in BAKU , Katya Golubkova in MOSCOW and Tamara Vaal in NUR - SULTAN ;
Writing by Andrey Ostroukh and Dmitry Zhdannikov ;
Editing by Jason Neely , Alison Williams and Alex Richardson )

Coronavirus: 2.5 million watch livestream of Canto-pop legend Sam Hui tell Hong Kong to ‘stay united’ in free concert .
2020-04-12 16:40:29 +00:00 .
Canto - pop legend Sam Hui called on Hongkongers to remain united and positive during a free online concert broadcast on Sunday as the city battles the coronavirus pandemic .
The 71 - year - old singer played some of his greatest hits during the show that began at 5 pm and was shown on television and live - streamed on social media .
Hui urged locals to work together and stay optimistic during the difficult times .
“ The beauty of life is that there are a lot of things that come suddenly without warning and are out of our control , ” he said .
“ But if we can maintain positive energy … rainy days will go at last one day .
Every cloud has a silver lining .
The economic downturn brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic has dealt a blow to the local entertainment industry .
Hui promised to donate HK$250,000 ( US$ 32,240 ) to workers of sound production company Tom Lee Engineering who had lost their jobs due to the pandemic .
Tom Lee handled Hui ’s first performance at the Hong Kong Coliseum in 1983 and has often managed the sound for his shows .
The one - hour performance was staged on the rooftop of the Harbour City shopping complex at the Tsim Sha Tsui waterfront against the backdrop of the Victoria Harbour skyline as the sun slowly turned the blue sky to a soft yellow .
Hui began with a cover of Roman Tam ’s Below the Lion Rock , an informal anthem of sorts for the city that calls for solidarity and rising above discord .
Armed with his acoustic guitar , he ran through about 20 other songs , including some of his greatest hits such as Bauhinia , Cherish , In the Same Boat , and Eiffel Tower Above the Clouds , all tributes to the affection Hong Kong people have for their city .
Sam Hui performing in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia , in February 2005 .
Photo : Getty Images
More
His son Ryan joined him for a cover of the The Beau Brummels ’ 1960s hit Just a Little .
According to the organisers , a global audience of more than 2.5 million watched the live - streamed concert via Facebook and the YouTube channel Health Egg .
Due to restrictions on large gatherings , the performance took place without a live audience .
Sam Hui has in the past performed with his brother Ricky .
Photo : SCMP Pictures
More Facebook user Little Sally , from the United States , was among the worldwide audience and left a message in Hui 's social media page : “ It ’s 5 am in the US !
Fans here are not sleeping because we could not miss this .
We love you Sam Hui ! ”
Chris Loh wrote : “ Greetings from Singapore .
Thanks for all the positive songs during this dark period .
Stay safe and strong !
Sam is [ the ] best ! " .
Kirabo Kuganja , wrote : “ Greetings from Uganda , East Africa !
So appreciative of your generous spirit !
God bless you and your family ! ”
Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet - ngor earlier urged fans to watch the show , adding that high - quality concerts produced in the city would be an “ important element in the recovery of our economy ” .
Known as the “ Father of Canto - pop ” , Hui rose to fame in the 1970s and after decades of performing , staged a series of farewell shows in the early 1990s .
But he has regularly emerged from retirement to the delight of his fans .
In 2004 , Hui held a series of concerts to boost the morale of residents affected by the outbreak of the severe acute respiratory syndrome .
This article Coronavirus : 2.5 million watch livestream of Canto - pop legend Sam Hui tell Hong Kong to ‘ stay united ’ in free concert first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Today's Birthday 13/4 .
2020-04-12 14:33:29 +00:00 .
Today 's Birthday , April 13 : Australian radio announcer Alan Jones ( 1941 - ) .
Amid the coronavirus outbreak , Alan Jones has labelled the disease the " health version of global warming " even after going into isolation last month to prevent being infected .
Alan Jones was born in Oakey , Queensland in 1943 and grew up on a dairy farm with siblings Robert and Colleen .
After leaving school , he trained as a teacher in Brisbane .
While teaching , he studied part - time at the University of Queensland and graduated in 1967 with a Bachelor of Arts .
Jones went on to teach at the King 's School in Sydney where he also coached the rugby team .
In the 1970s , he ran a regional NSW airline called Skyways , studied at Oxford 's Worcester College and attempted a career in politics .
He worked as a speechwriter for Liberal prime minister Malcolm Fraser from 1979 to 1981 before moving to the Employers ' Federation of NSW .
Jones began as a radio commentator in 1985 with Sydney station 2UE .
He also coached the Wallabies to a Bledisloe Cup win in 1986 after a 39 - year drought .
Two years later he was honoured with a Member of the General Division of the Order of Australia for services to rugby , followed by induction to the Australian sports hall of fame in 1989 .
Jones attracted thousands of dollars in fines for a range of defamation and other cases in his time at 2UE .
In 1999 , the Australian Broadcasting Authority began hearings into the cash - for - comment scandal where broadcasters allegedly passed off paid advertising as independent commentary .
The following year , the ABA found Jones and then - colleague John Laws breached the Broadcasting Act and the radio code 95 times .
As a result , 2UE was forced to abide by tougher regulations .
After contract extensions with 2UE ended in December 2001 , Jones signed up with radio station 2 GB the following year for a reported $ 4 million annual salary .
In 2013 , Jones began hosting a political talk show on Sky News with former Labor senator Graham Richardson .
Since 2017 , the show has been rebranded to Jones Co , which he co - hosts with Peta Credlin .
He continues to host his breakfast show on 2 GB .

Johnson owes his 'life' to medics as UK deaths set to top 10,000 .
2020-04-12 11:04:04 +00:00 .
Virus - stricken Prime Minister Boris Johnson admitted Sunday he owed his medical team his " life " as Britain braced to pass the grim milestone of 10,000 hospital deaths from COVID-19
The country is now seeing death tolls to match Europe 's hardest - hit nations Italy and Spain after recording nearly 1,000 daily fatalities in each of the last two days .
The actual figure , amid hopes of hitting a peak , may be far higher as the count does not include those who have died in care homes and the community .
Britain 's tally of confirmed cases has climbed close to 80,000 , but that is thought to be only a snapshot of the true level of infections due to limited testing for the virus .
Johnson , who spent three days in intensive care this week after contracting COVID-19 , praised staff treating him in a state - run hospital .
" I ca n't thank them enough .
I owe them my life , " he said , in a first public statement since being moved out of intensive care at London 's St Thomas ' Hospital on Thursday .
The 55 - year - old leader has since been making " very good progress " in his recovery and able to take short walks between periods of rest , according to Downing Street .
However , it remains unclear when he might be discharged from hospital and how quickly he would return to work once out .
Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab has been deputising for Johnson .
The prime minister 's spokesman has stressed that his recovery is " at an early stage " and he would act only " on the advice of his medical team " .
- ' Not overcome us ' -
It is also uncertain when Britain might be able to lift stringent social distancing measures rolled out on March 23 .
Implemented for an initial three weeks , the lockdown is set for a formal review next week and likely to remain in place until at least the end of the month .
Queen Elizabeth II urged Britons to keep staying home , in what is believed to be her first pre - recorded Easter address , released by Buckingham Palace on Saturday evening .
" By keeping apart we keep others safe , " the 93 - year - old monarch said .
" We know that coronavirus will not overcome us . "
Her resolute comments came a week after a rare televised address to the nation in which she told people to unite to beat COVID-19 .
Meanwhile , the government has been forced to defend its rollout of personal protective equipment ( PPE ) for medical staff during the pandemic .
" We are making sure we get the equipment to the front line , " senior minister Alok Sharma said on Sunday , noting there was a " squeeze on supply " amid " huge global demand for PPE " .
Health Secretary Matt Hancock confirmed Saturday that 19 National Health Service ( NHS ) staff had died from COVID-19 .
But he said a lack of PPE had not been blamed for any of the cases .
However , a senior doctor who has since died pleaded last month on social media with Johnson for better protection against the disease .
Meanwhile , there is reportedly growing evidence it is having a disproportionate impact on people from minority backgrounds , who make up a large proportion of the NHS workforce .
Research suggests that more than a third of critically ill coronavirus patients in British hospitals are black , Asian or from another ethnic minority , according to the BBC .
Prime minister Johnson praised staff at St Thomas ' Hospital in London saying he owed the medics his life
Britain braced on Easter Sunday to pass 10,000 hospital deaths from COVID-19

New Law Helps You Delay Mortgage Payments and Prevent Foreclosure .
2020-04-11 23:09:40 +00:00 .
If you 've been financially affected by the novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic , you may be wondering how you are going to make upcoming mortgage payments .
There is help available .
A new federal law , the Coronavirus Aid , Relief and Economic Security ( CARES ) Act , gives you two new financial protections if you have a federally backed mortgage :
A moratorium on foreclosures Mortgage forbearance
Related : Special financial protections against foreclosure , eviction and repossession for active - duty military members .
If you do n't have a federally backed mortgage , you may still have relief options through your mortgage servicer or from your state .
However , many people have federally backed mortgages and do n't know it .
More than half of all mortgages are owned or backed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac , which are federal agencies .
Federally backed mortgages include loans from such agencies as :
The Department of Veterans Affairs ( VA )
The U.S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA )
The Federal Housing Administration ( FHA )
The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ( HUD )
The Federal National Mortgage Association ( FNMA ) , commonly known as Fannie Mae
The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( FHLMC ) , also known as Freddie Mac If you 're not sure whether your mortgage is federally backed , you can check your mortgage paperwork or call your lender .
You can also see whether your loan is backed by Fannie Mae here or check if your loan is backed by Freddie Mac here .
The foreclosure moratorium contained in the new federal law says that your lender or loan servicer can not foreclose on your mortgage between March 18 and May 17 , 2020 .
This means they can not begin the foreclosure process during this time or finalize a foreclosure process , even if it was initiated prior to these dates .
Mortgage forbearance basically means that you either pay a lower monthly amount or suspend payments temporarily .
Under the new law , you have the right to request forbearance for up to 180 days .
After the original 180 - day forbearance expires , you can request another 180 - day extension .
The law says that your lender ca n't charge you any fees , penalties or additional interest if it does grant you forbearance .
The law does not state that the lender must grant you forbearance ; however , most will .
Getting late or partial payments is better for its bottom line than not getting any money at all .
If you wish to contact your mortgage lender to discuss mortgage payment options , your best bet may be to contact it online .
Phone lines are quite busy at this time .
If you do call , make sure you have all your documents ready ; your lender may want to know your current financial and employment situation , what you expect your future situation to be , as well as how much current savings and other bills you have etc .
As always , if you do get a forbearance agreement with your lender , make sure you get everything in writing to cover yourself .
With some forbearance programs , you may owe all of your missed payments at one time , or additional payments at the end of the mortgage might be required , so make sure you 're familiar with the final terms and keep all your paperwork -- just in case .
Get the Latest Financial Tips
Whether you 're trying to balance your budget , build up your credit , select a good life insurance program or are gearing up for a home purchase , Military.com has you covered .
Subscribe to Military.com and get the latest military benefit updates and tips delivered straight to your inbox .

India’s Nationwide Virus Lockdown Set to Extend to April 30 .
2020-04-11 21:31:11 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
India is set to extend its 21 - day nationwide lockdown until April 30 to allow authorities and health workers more time to control the growing spread of coronavirus infections .
Delhi ’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Twitter Prime Minister Narendra Modi -- who was meeting with state leaders via video conference on Saturday -- made the right decision to extend the lockdown , which had been due to end on April 14 .
There has been no formal announcement on the extension from the government .
India has adequate supplies of essential medicines and the government was taking measures to ensure protective gear and critical equipment was available for all front - line workers , Modi said in a statement Saturday .
The next three - to - four weeks are critical for determining the impact of the steps taken to contain the virus , Modi told the state chief ministers .
There seems to be a consensus on an extension of lockdown by another two weeks , he said , according to the statement
The country ’s three - week lockdown began on March 25 .
Modi has described the pandemic as a “ social emergency ” as infections continue to surge , with the Ministry of Health saying there were 1,035 new infections added overnight Friday .
Cases now sit at 7,600 with 249 deaths according to data collected by the Baltimore - based Johns Hopkins University .
Tighter Controls
Some Indian states have already either extended the lockdown or marked out hundreds of high risk zones where even tighter curbs have been put in place .
In Maharashtra -- home to India ’s financial capital Mumbai and at 1,574 , the most infections in the country -- the lockdown was extended until at least the end of the month , Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said Saturday .
Restrictions can be relaxed in some paces and tightened in others after the current 21 - day lockdown ends on April 14 , Thackeray said , without providing details .
The extension was necessary because the chain of transmission had not yet been broken , said Suresh Kumar Rathi , an epidemiologist and associate professor at the Public Health Foundation of India .
“ The extended lockdown should be implemented with tighter restrictions -- it should be a curfew - like situation , ” Rathi said .
“ First we need to survive .
The economy and other things will come later . ”
Authorities have sealed settlements , lanes and apartment complexes in the financial capital of Mumbai , as well as in Delhi and the neighboring state of Uttar Pradesh , allowing in only medical services , surveillance workers and those delivering food and other essential items .
Officials have said the pandemic is now largely concentrated in 78 districts across the nation .
( Adds Modi statement in third paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Dance moves from 'Tik Tok Doc' bring welcome relief from virus blues .
2020-04-11 21:06:30 +00:00 .
A US doctor 's dance videos posted on social media have proven just the right medicine for hundreds of thousands of people , including health care workers , who are cheering him on for lifting their spirits during the coronavirus pandemic .
Dubbed " Tik Tok Doc " after the popular short - form video app , Dr. Jason Campbell has taken the Internet by storm with clips featuring him and colleagues doing the " corona foot shake , " " the cha - cha slide " and other dance moves .
The 31 - year - old anesthesia resident physician at Oregon Health Science University Hospital told AFP he has been overwhelmed by the positive response , including from health care workers in New York , the country 's epicenter of the COVID-19 pandemic .
" When you 're in medicine , you see a lot of serious , sad things all the time , " Campbell said .
" And so we too need a way to remain human , stay sane and a chance to just smile or laugh , even if it 's just five minutes out of a 12 - hour day . "
Campbell said he initially began posting the videos to encourage teens , especially African - American youths , to pursue their dreams and know that they too could become physicians .
The clips , however , quickly went viral , resonating with a much wider audience clearly in need of cheering up during these dark times .
His " corona foot shake " video alone has been watched four million times .
" I got a message today ( Friday ) from someone who said his wife was a cardiologist working with COVID-19 response teams and found the videos so refreshing , " Campbell said .
Another message came from a lung cancer patient who thanked him for making his quarantine more bearable .
" The overwhelming response has been , ' Hey , I work in New York City and I love seeing your video after my long day , ' " Campbell said .
" Others say , ' Hey , my family member has the virus and we watch these videos together while they recover . ' "
Campbell said fellow doctors and nurses at the hospital in Portland were initially reluctant to appear in the videos , but after seeing the positive reactions have joined in the fun .
Hospital officials have applauded the initiative .
" Dr. Campbell 's energy and charisma is infectious , " said Dr. Renee Edwards , the hospital 's chief medical officer .
" A skilled physician , he 's found a unique way to incorporate the power of positivity into his daily work , helping to lift the spirits of patients and co - workers alike . "
The videos have been hailed by the state 's governor and even caught the attention of popular recording artist Janet Jackson , who retweeted one of the doctor 's TikToks .
Campbell , who has posted about a dozen videos since the beginning of March , said his next dance routine , currently being rehearsed , was in response to a special request from his co - workers ' kids .
" It 's going to be a slow - motion challenge with one of my colleague 's daughter , " he said .
" It 's multiple moves where you go slow at first then speed it up back to real time . "
As for his plans once the pandemic is over , Campbell said he has no intention of stopping his dancing .
" The focus will remain on connecting with the black youth , " he said .
" And working to enhance diversity in medicine long - term . "
This handout selfie courtesy of Dr. Jason Campbell shows him on April 10 , 2020 at the Oregon Health Science University Hospital in Portland
This handout selfie courtesy of Dr. Jason Campbell shows him posing with program nurse Grace Choi on March 18 , 2020 at the Oregon Health Science University Hospital in Portland
This handout selfie courtesy of Dr. Jason Campbell shows him posing with program director Dr. Emily Baird on February 10 , 2020 at the Oregon Health Science University Hospital in Portland

Beating virus would be 'real' victory, says PSG's Sarabia .
2020-04-11 13:06:26 +00:00 .
Paris Saint - Germain winger Pablo Sarabia says that beating the coronavirus would be the " real victory of the season " , with most professional football shut down due to the pandemic .
France 's Ligue 1 was suspended on March 13 , with PSG sitting 12 points clear of Marseille at the top of the table , while having also reached the Champions League quarter - finals for the first time since 2016 .
But Spanish international Sarabia says public health has to come first ahead of getting back onto the pitch .
" No , I 'm not afraid about that ( the season not restarting ) , it 's not the thing I am worrying about , " he told AFP .
" I am thinking about my family first and foremost and then about getting this sorted .
This is a critical situation .
" Who knows right now whether the league will restart or not -- it is hypothetical and we all need to focus on the pandemic .
Coming through this would be the real victory of the season . "
Football players have come under pressure to take salary cuts , with Barcelona , Real Madrid , Juventus and Bayern Munich stars all among those to accept a reduction in pay .
And Sarabia says that the French clubs are also planning to take similar measures .
" All that is in our hands , if we can help , donate something , do what is in our hands , ( we will ) , " he said .
" We are talking about it and our captains are in discussions and all we can do to help PSG and the country in general , we will try to do that . "
- Euro hopes on ice - Sarabia , 27 , joined the French champions from La Liga outfit Sevilla last year and has impressed in Paris , scoring 14 goals in all competitions so far this season .
He is hoping to use his unexpected free time to improve his French , having signed a five - year contract with PSG .
" I like to talk and if I do n't understand the language and ca n't communicate that frustrates me a bit , " said Sarabia .
" I 'm trying to make the most of these days to study and come out with a better level of French . "
PSG 's main aim since the takeover by a Qatari investment group in 2011 has been to lift the Champions League trophy , but the capital club have still not reached the semi - finals since 1995 .
A last-16 victory over Borussia Dortmund last month , though , having trailed after the first leg , raised hopes that PSG could finally make a serious tilt at European football 's greatest prize .
" It was a difficult time when we lost in Dortmund but everything that has happened has shown how united we all are as a team , " said Sarabia .
" I could see in the eyes of my teammates that we were going to get through , you could feel it .
" ( But ) there is still a long way to go before the final , and as I said before I do n't think we should be thinking about that just now . "
Sarabia ( C ) has scored 14 goals for PSG this season , including seven in five French Cup games

Link Reit takes cue from government’s coronavirus relief package, expands tenant support scheme to US$39 million .
2020-04-10 14:53:03 +00:00 .
Link Reit , the biggest real estate investment trust in Asia , said that it would expand the support package for its tenants hit by the coronavirus outbreak to HK$300 million ( US$ 38.69 million ) from HK$80 million announced in February .
“ The board of directors has approved that we substantially expand our support scheme to echo the government ’s economic relief package , ” Nicholas Allen , chairman of the board , said on Friday .
Link ’s move comes after Hong Kong ’s leader Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet - ngor on Wednesday unveiled the city ’s biggest coronavirus relief package so far , worth HK$137.5 billion ( US$ 17.4 billion ) , to save ailing businesses and ensure some 1.5 million workers continue to get paid at least for the next six months .
Hong Kong ’s economy is already in recession , having been hit by the social unrest in the second half of 2019 .
Now , the coronavirus outbreak , which has infected close to 1,000 people and claimed 4 lives , is piling additional pressure as the government forces many businesses to shut down to contain the outbreak .
Nicholas Allen , chairman of the board of Link Reit .
Photo : David Wong
More
Since Link established the HK$80 million support scheme in mid - February , some 1,900 tenants have benefited from the programme .
These tenants account for more than a third of its rental income in Hong Kong .
For the year ended March , 2019 , Link ’s gross rental income was HK$9 billion .
Link Reit manages a portfolio of 126 properties totalling 8.7 million sq ft of retail facilities and offices , and 57,000 car parking spaces in Hong Kong .
The support scheme is intended to offer targeted relief to tenants , including reducing rents , granting rent - free periods , allowing rent payment by instalments , waiving interest on late payments and service charges , and parking concessions .
“ We have been working closely with our tenants to offer support during these difficult times and we understand the prolonged impact from the coronavirus has resulted in a greater need for relief measures , ” said George Hongchoy , CEO of Link .
Link said that almost all of the 130 education centres in its portfolio have received help including rent concessions .
In March , Link announced a 50 per cent discount on the monthly car park fee for school buses using its car parks from April to September to mitigate the impact of class suspension .
In addition , Link also said that it would suspend its monthly car park fee adjustment for the time being despite the additional operating costs of increased hygiene measures and minimum wage increases .
“ Link will remain vigilant in face of the challenging market conditions and respond on a timely basis to support our tenants , shoppers and the community .
We are committed to working in concert with the government and other concerned parties to ride out this challenging period , ” Hongchoy said .
Sign up now and get a 10 % discount ( original price US$ 400 ) off the China AI Report 2020 by SCMP Research .
Learn about the AI ambitions of Alibaba , Baidu
JD.com through our in - depth case studies , and explore new applications of AI across industries .
The report also includes exclusive access to webinars to interact with C - level executives from leading China AI companies ( via live QA sessions ) .
Offer valid until 31 May 2020 .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Link Reit takes cue from government ’s coronavirus relief package , expands tenant support scheme to US$ 39 million first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Ghana Virus Battle ‘Modestly Successful’ on Testing Progress .
2020-04-10 09:24:34 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Ghanaian President Nana Akufo - Addo said the country is making progress to contain the spread of the coronavirus after an increase in testing showed limited contagion .
The number of confirmed cases reached 378 after the government tested 14,000 samples , Akufo - Addo said Thursday in an address on national television .
Travelers and their contacts who entered the country after the implementation of border restrictions in March made out 79 % of the cases , he said .
The West African nation had 141 confirmed results on March 28 , out of about 2,500 screenings , before a mass roll - out of testing began .
Authorities are expecting the outcome of a further 10,000 tests over the next week after taking a total of 37,405 samples , said Akufo - Addo .
A 14 - day lockdown of Ghana ’s biggest cities , including Accra , the capital , will be extended by another week until April 20 , he said .
Difficulties
“ It appears that our common efforts have been modestly successful in containing the virus and minimizing the spread , ” said Akufo - Addo .
“ It is important that we stay the course and bear with the difficulties . ”
While Africa accounts for less than 1 % of the global tally of almost 1.6 million confirmed virus cases , containment measures have wreaked havoc on the continent ’s economies .
After growing by 6 % or more over the past three years , Ghana ’s economic expansion may slow to 1.5 % , the least since a contraction in 1983 .
( Adds capital city in fourth paragraph .
A previous version of the story corrected the global tally in the final paragraph )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Coronavirus: Malaysia further extends partial lockdown to stem outbreak .
2020-04-10 09:21:52 +00:00 .
Malaysia ’s national partial lockdown has been extended for the second time and will now only be lifted on April 28 .
“ Let me remind you that the war on Covid-19 is not yet over .
The fight is still on … Just uplift your spirits and continue to fight .
If we persevere , God willing we will win , ” Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said in a televised address on Friday .
“ We must be prepared to bear with this situation for a relatively longer period of time .
The month of Ramadan is coming soon .
We ca n’t go to the bazaars to buy food to break our fast with , we ca n’t go to the mosques , maybe we ca n’t even return to our hometowns .
This is the reality we face , ” he said .
However , Malaysians may still only leave their homes to buy groceries , for emergencies or to access health care .
They can not eat out or visit each other ’s homes .
The first phase of the “ movement control order ” , designed to limit large gatherings , began on March 18 and was meant to end on March 31 .
But , Muhyiddin then extended it on April 14 , saying that it was a necessary move to slow the rate of infections that have ballooned from under 100 in early March to more than 4,000 as of Thursday .
It is understood that the lockdown may last until mid - May , to limit social gatherings during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
Although the announcement was initially met with confusion and panic buying , the nation soon settled into a new rhythm .
Across the Causeway , neighbouring Singapore is also practising what it has dubbed a “ circuit breaker ” .
Similar to Malaysia , it requires people to remain at home and has shut schools and non - essential businesses .
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern , who imposed a two - week nationwide lockdown on March 25 , told Singapore ’s Lee Hsien Loong that the country only saw positive changes after 11 days of lockdown .
More from South China Morning Post :
This article Coronavirus : Malaysia further extends partial lockdown to stem outbreak first appeared on South China Morning Post
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app .
Copyright 2020 .

Police release footage as officers face coughing and spitting during arrests .
2020-04-10 07:54:36 +00:00 .
Three men have been jailed for coughing , spitting or threatening to infect people – including police officers – with coronavirus .
West Midlands Police released shocking audio and video footage of officers being threatened during arrests , and said they were issuing it as a “ stark warning ” to those using coronavirus “ as a weapon ” .
On Monday , a teenager was jailed for six months after threatening to spit in a female officer ’s face as she detained him over an alleged road rage incident in Coventry , police said .
Officers arrested Thomas Wilson , 19 , at 12.30pm on March 31 in London Road after it is claimed he spat at a lorry driver and brandished an axe during an altercation in Brinklow Road .
He resisted arrest and suggested he had Covid-19 symptoms before threatening to cough and spit at the officer .
Wilson , from Hepworth Road , Binley , was charged with possessing an offensive weapon , a public order offence , assault by spitting at the lorry driver , and assaulting an emergency services worker .
Thomas Wilson ( West Midlands Police / PA )
More
Most charges were deferred to be dealt with at a later date but Judge Andrew Lockhart jailed Wilson after he admitted the spit threat .
On the same day another man , Bevan Burke , was jailed after he spat at a shopkeeper who had banned him from the store for shoplifting .
Police said Burke stormed into Allen ’s Croft Post Office in Northfield , Birmingham , on April 3 and spat at the victim , shouting : “ I have corona … you ’re going to die . ”
The 22 - year - old was arrested later that day , and while being transported to police custody began coughing and blowing towards officers and again said : “ I ’ve got confirmed coronavirus and now you ’ve got it .
I hope you and your family die . ”
Bevan Burke ( West Midlands Police / PA )
More
He was jailed for 42 weeks at Birmingham Crown Court having admitted assaulting emergency workers and the shopkeeper , as well as shoplifting at the convenience store on January 10 .
Meanwhile , a 54 - year - old man was also given a prison sentence on Monday for spitting in the face of a West Midlands Police officer in Birmingham city centre .
Officers attended a petrol station in Corporation Street at 9.45pm on April 4 following reports of a drunk man causing problems , pouring fuel on the floor and obstructing traffic .
Anthony Evans , of no fixed address but originally from Atherstone in Warwickshire , tried kicking out at them and , as they detained him , spat in an officer ’s face .
Story continues Anthony Evans ( West Midlands Police / PA )
More
He was jailed for 16 weeks at Birmingham Crown Court , police said .
West Midlands Police Chief Constable Danny Long welcomed the tough stance by the courts .
He said : “ It ’s completely unacceptable for people to behave in this way against officers , other emergency services staff , key workers or indeed any member of the public .
“ At a time of heightened concern across the whole country , a minority of people are using the threat of coronavirus as a weapon .
“ It wo n’t be tolerated and offenders have now been sent a clear warning : there is the very real risk you will be sent to prison . ”

Coronavirus: Universal Orlando, Universal Studios Hollywood to stay closed through May 31 .
2020-04-10 07:27:08 +00:00 .
Universal Orlando and Universal Studios Hollywood will not be welcoming any guests until at least June , as the coronavirus pandemic continues to play out across the country .
" We are extending the closure of Universal Orlando Resort and Universal Studios Hollywood through at least May 31 , " the company said in a statement Thursday .
"
This includes our theme parks and Universal CityWalk at both destinations .
The Universal Orlando Resort hotels have also temporarily suspended operations through this time period . "
Guests who 've already purchased tickets to visit the Florida or California parks during the closure will be able to use them through Dec. 18 .
( Customers should bring the old tickets to the front gate turnstile when they visit . )
" If you can not visit during this time , you can apply the value of a wholly unused ticket toward a new purchase , " Universal said in its FAQ .
Guests who purchased tickets for dates after the park has reopened can still use them or put the money towards a new purchase .
Universal 's theme parks will be closed through May , the company said Thursday .
More
Annual and season passholders who have paid in full will have their passes extended by the number of days the theme park is closed .
Meanwhile , the monthly FlexPlay plans have paused billing .
The parks initially closed in mid - March for two weeks .
Thursday 's announcement marked the second time Universal has they 've extended their coronavirus closures .
" We know Coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) has impacted many parts of your life – including your travel and vacation plans and we will be eager to welcome you back to our theme parks and destinations when the time comes , " Universal said on its website .
"
For now , we must make the health and safety of our guests and team members our top priority and we will continue to take guidance from health agencies and government officials . "
Disney announced in late March that its Orlando and California parks will remain closed until further notice .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Universal theme parks to stay closed through May 31

CDC extends 'no sail' order for cruise ships as industry ravaged by the coronavirus .
2020-04-10 04:39:43 +00:00 .
Cruise ships wo n't be hitting the high seas again anytime soon .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention extended a " no sail order " Thursday that it imposed last month to help quell the spread of the coronavirus .
While the March 14 order was intended as a voluntary measure to stay in place for 30 days , the new one could last longer .
The CDC order states that cruise ships ca n't board passengers and return to their sailing schedules until one of three events takes place : • Expiration of the Department of Health and Human Services ' declaration that COVID-19 constitutes a public health emergency .
•The CDC director 's own decision to modify or rescind its no - sail decision .
•Passage of 100 days from the time the new order is published in the Federal Register .
Until then , the about 100 cruise ships in the Atlantic , Pacific or Gulf of Mexico must remain idle , either in port or wallowing at anchor , the CDC said .
Those ships currently have nearly 80,000 crew aboard .
A patient is taken off the the Zaandam cruise ship after it arrived at Port Everglades on April 2 , 2020 in Fort Lauderdale , Fla.
The Holland America cruise ship had been at sea for the past 19 days after South American ports denied their entry due to the coronavirus outbreak .
Reports indicated that two of four people that died aboard the Zaandam had tested positive for COVID-19 .
More
“ The measures we are taking today to stop the spread of COVID-19 are necessary to protect Americans , and we will continue to provide critical public health guidance to the industry to limit the impacts of COVID-19 , " said CDC Director Robert Redfield in a statement .
Cruise ship lines have already voluntarily suspended most operations , leaving a dwindling number of ships left at sea with passengers aboard .
Many have struggled to find ports that will allow their passengers to disembark .
One ship still in operation is Princess Cruises ' Pacific Princess , en route to Hawaii and then to Los Angeles with 115 passengers aboard after cutting short a westbound around - the - world cruise in Australia .
The only passengers left aboard are those who had medical issues that prevented them from flying home .
More : 2021 cruise bookings are on the rise despite coronavirus chaos
Cruise ships , with their confined environments , have been hit particularly hard by the coronavirus pandemic .
The CDC notes that in recent weeks , crew members or passengers have developed either flu - like symptoms or tested positive for COVID-19 on at least 10 cruise ships .
On some of the vessels , passengers or crew members died either on the ship or after being moved ashore to hospitals .
The Cruise Lines International Association did n't immediately offer a statement on the extension of the CDC order .
But upon the March 14 order , CLIA Global Chairman Adam Goldstein said it was understood to be necessary .
More : If you sailed on these cruise ships , you may have been exposed to coronavirus
“ We do not take this decision lightly , and we want the traveling public to know in no uncertain terms the commitment of this industry to putting people first , ” he said .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : CDC extends ' no sail ' order for cruise ships

Harvey Weinstein free of coronavirus symptoms, spokesman says .
2020-04-10 01:59:01 +00:00 .
By Karen Freifeld ( Reuters ) - Harvey Weinstein , who is serving a prison sentence for rape , has no symptoms of the coronavirus , his spokesman said on Thursday , more than two weeks after a union official for corrections officers said the former movie producer had tested positive .
" As of now , it 's been 14 days since reports of concern from people inside the prison , and he has no symptoms and no issues , " Weinstein spokesman Juda Engelmayer said .
Weinstein , 68 , was sentenced on March 11 for sexually assaulting former production assistant Mimi Haleyi and raping Jessica Mann , a onetime aspiring actress .
Michael Powers , head of the state corrections officers union , said on March 22 that Weinstein had tested positive for the coronavirus , which causes the respiratory illness COVID-19 .
At the time , Powers said Weinstein had been placed in isolation at Wende Correctional Facility , the maximum security prison east of Buffalo , New York , where Weinstein is serving a 23 - year sentence .
Powers said he was concerned for corrections officers , who he said lacked protective equipment .
Powers could not be reached for comment on Thursday .
“ I do n’t know the exact status of his medical condition , " Arthur Aidala , a lawyer for Weinstein , told Reuters on Thursday .
" But when I speak with him he sounds fine . ”
In a statement on March 23 , Weinstein ’s defense team would neither confirm nor deny whether Weinstein had tested positive for the coronavirus .
They said statements made about his health had not been authorized by the Department of Corrections and could be a violation of privacy regulations .
State prison officials have said they can not comment on any individual prisoner 's medical record .
Weinstein was one of Hollywood 's most powerful producers , known for transforming the independent film industry .
He produced the Academy award winner " Shakespeare in Love " and was responsible for other acclaimed films including " Pulp Fiction , " " The English Patient " and " Gangs of New York . "
Following his March sentencing , Weinstein spent time at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan for heart problems .
He arrived in Wende on March 18 from New York City 's Rikers Island jail .
Weinstein 's conviction was hailed as a victory for the # MeToo movement against sexual misconduct by powerful men .
More than 100 women , including famous actresses , have accused Weinstein of sexual misconduct stretching back decades .
He has denied the allegations , saying any sex was consensual .
Weinstein faces separate sexual assault charges in Los Angeles .
Imran Ansari , another of Weinstein 's lawyers , on Thursday declined to comment on Weinstein 's coronavirus status , but said Weinstein remains in the prison 's medical unit for treatment of various conditions he was suffering from prior to his arrival at Wende .
" He 's not receiving any special perks or treatment , " Ansari said .
( Reporting by Karen Freifeld ;
Editing by Noeleen Walder and Leslie Adler )

Brazil lockdowns, attacked by Bolsonaro, begin to slip .
2020-04-10 01:12:04 +00:00 .
By Gabriela Mello and Rodrigo Viga Gaier
SAO PAULO / RIO DE JANEIRO ( Reuters ) - Lockdowns in Brazil 's largest cities to slow the coronavirus outbreak are beginning to slip , according to new data this week seen and analyzed by Reuters , with more people leaving their homes as President Jair Bolsonaro continues to criticize the measures .
State governments in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo have expressed growing concern as their social isolation orders lose effectiveness , even as the outbreak spreads to nearly 16,000 confirmed coronavirus cases and 800 deaths .
Cellular phone data , public transportation figures and interviews with taxi drivers in Rio and Sao Paulo point to rising traffic and footfall in Brazil 's two largest cities .
Mayors and governors trying to keep Brazilians indoors have struggled against Bolsonaro 's repeated attacks on the social distancing measures , which he described as " poison " that could kill more through economic hardship than the virus itself .
In Sao Paulo state , Brazil 's most populous and home to Latin America 's largest city , anonymous cellular data gathered by the local government and passed to Reuters on Wednesday showed the number of people considered to be in " social isolation " reached its lowest point this week since the lockdown began on March 24 .
" Social isolation fell significantly in the past two to three days and that makes our challenge harder , " Patricia Ellen , state secretary for economic development , told Reuters .
" We are concerned . "
On Wednesday , 49 % of Sao Paulo residents were considered to be in " social isolation , " compared to a weekday - peak of 56 % on March 30 , according to a government analysis of cellular data collected from phone operators .
The all - time peaks were on Sundays , when 59 % remained in isolation .
Sao Paulo Governor Joao Doria told reporters on Thursday that the state was targeting a 70 % rate of compliance , which he said science showed was necessary for it to be properly effective .
In the city of Sao Paulo , the number of passengers using public buses increased by 28 % on Monday compared to the same day a week earlier , according to official figures .
This week in Rio , the metro reported the highest weekday passenger numbers for a Monday and Tuesday since the lockdown there began on March 23 .
Trains and buses also saw an increase in ridership .
Luciano Ventura de Jesus , a 58 - year - old taxi driver in Sao Paulo , said he has seen a jump in demand from passengers since last week .
He is now doing seven or eight trips per day , up from just two or three last week .
On a normal day , before lockdown , he said he was doing 12 to 15 trips .
" People are becoming a bit more relaxed ( about the lockdown ) , " he said .
( This story corrects Doria to governor , not mayor )
( Reporting by Gabriela Mello in Sao Paulo and Rodrigo Viga Gaier in Rio de Janeiro ; Additional reporting by Pedro Fonseca in Rio , Eduardo Simoes and Stephen Eisenhammer in Sao Paulo ; Writing by Stephen Eisenhammer ;
Editing by Brad Haynes , Aurora Ellis )

State Street Delays Shaking Up World’s Biggest ETF on Volatility .
2020-04-09 21:39:34 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
State Street Corp. is delaying rebalances of some of its biggest ETFs amid coronavirus - fueled market turmoil .
The $ 256 billion SPDR SP 500 ETF Trust , or SPY , is among almost 60 products tracking SP Dow Jones indexes that are impacted , according to an April 8 letter sent to specialist traders known as authorized participants and seen by Bloomberg News .
The document cited “ extreme global market volatility ” and follows a decision by the index provider to postpone a quarterly rebalancing that was scheduled for last month .
The majority of these funds will now rebalance after market close on June 19 .
The SPDR SP 1500 Momentum Tilt ETF and the SPDR SP 1500 Value Tilt ETF will go through that process after regular trading hours on April 17 , while the SPDR SP Global Infrastructure ETF ’s rebalancing was delayed to June 30 after the market close .
“ The funds are rules - based and seek to track third - party indexes and our rebalancing will reflect the rules within each methodology , ” according to a State Street Global Advisors spokesperson .
“ If the rebalances are delayed by the index provider we will follow suit to ensure we perform the stated objective of our investment strategy which is to seek to provide investment results of a defined benchmark . ”
Concern over the economic fallout from the coronavirus outbreak spurred volatility across assets classes .
The SP 500 recorded the quickest plunge into correction territory on record in February , before snapping back into a bull market this week .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

About a third of Americans miss rent payments in April due to coronavirus pandemic .
2020-04-09 21:11:11 +00:00 .
A record number of Americans applied for unemployment in March , but many landlords still expected tenants to pay rent .
As a result , nearly a third of renters did n’t make payments by April 5 , according to a new study from the National Multifamily Housing Council .
The NMHC found that while 82 % of tenants payed rent in April 2019 , only 69 % paid in April 2020 .
Nearly 10 million Americans applied for unemployment in March , after the coronavirus pandemic brought on massive layoffs , CNN reported .
The United States ’ longest - running economic expansion came to a screeching halt , and the chance of a recession within 12 months is now at 100 % , according to a model created by Bloomberg Economics .
The model “ incorporates a range of data spanning economic conditions , financial markets and gauges of underlying stress , ” Bloomberg reported .
Renters , who generally have a lower income and less stable employment , are at greater risk for financial loss , according to Yahoo !
Finance .
About 35 % of renters lost income in March and 45 % do not have enough money saved to cover their rent payments , according to a survey cited by Yahoo !
Finance .
Fortunately , some taxpayers who provided direct deposit information can expect some relief as the IRS begins distributing payouts as part of the federal government ’s $ 2 trillion stimulus bill , according to Forbes .
The IRS expects to send out paper checks to taxpayers making less than $ 10,000 a year by April 24 , Forbes reported .
But that may not come soon enough for other low - income renters ; taxpayers earning between $ 10,001 and $ 20,000 wo n’t see a check until May 1 , according to Forbes .
Renters making between $ 20,001 and $ 30,000 a year wo n’t get theirs until as late as May 8 , Forbes reported .
It is important to note that there are 44 million renter households in the U.S. , but the data from the NMHC only includes 13.4 million and excludes subsidized housing , according to CNN .
The full impact will potentially remain unknown until May , CNN reported .
“ People were working in March .
April rent may have come from their savings , ” Priscilla Almodovar , CEO of Enterprise Community Partners , a national nonprofit for affordable housing development , told CNN .
“ The rent check is probably the first thing they pay .
Now they may be unemployed , and we do n’t know what resources will get to them in time for May. ” Enterprise Community Partners wants direct rental assistance from the government for renters , according to CNN .
At this point , it ’s up to landlords to decide how to proceed as the economy continues to take a hit during the coronavirus pandemic , CNN reported .

Hong Kong’s Richest Man Made Early Zoom Bet That’s Now Worth $3 Billion .
2020-04-09 19:57:14 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Li Ka - shing built Hong Kong ’s biggest fortune on old - fashioned real estate and infrastructure .
It ’s a bet on technology that ’s paying off in the current crisis .
Li , called “ Superman ” by his admirers , was an early investor in Zoom Video Communications Inc. and owns about 8.6 % of the San Jose - based company , according to regulatory filings .
The value of Li ’s stake has surged 80 % this year to $ 2.9 billion -- the only public holding of his tracked by the Bloomberg Billionaires Index to record a gain .
His overall fortune is down about $ 5 billion to $ 26 billion this year after Hong Kong was hit by protests and the coronavirus pandemic .
The 91 - year - old owns Zoom through three investment vehicles , according to the filings .
Horizons Ventures , which manages Li ’s venture investments , led a $ 6.5 million series B round funding in the video conferencing company in 2013 and participated in a $ 30 million series C round two years later , according to the company ’s website .
His stake was worth about $ 850 million when Zoom started publicly trading in the U.S. in April 2019 .
The company ’s teleconferencing software has become an essential tool for millions at a time when much of the world is socially distancing to blunt the toll of the Covid-19 virus .
Zoom ’s share price has soared as the homebound use it for everything from work conferences to Passover meals to happy hours , though it has recently given back some of those gains over privacy concerns .
Li is n’t the only person benefiting from the Zoom boom .
Founder Eric Yuan is now worth $ 6.1 billion , according to the Bloomberg ranking .
Former Yahoo co - founder Jerry Yang was another early investor .
David Bonderman ’s family office , Wildcat Capital Management , jumped in at the end of last year , regulatory filings show , before Zoom stock skyrocketed .
Some of Li ’s other companies are helping boost Zoom ’s user base .
3 Hong Kong , the mobile arm of his Hutchison Telecommunications , donated backpacks that included free “ Zoom Classrooms ” to hundreds of Hong Kong schools , the company said in a March 18 statement .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

These products can help destroy the coronavirus .
2020-04-09 15:04:49 +00:00 .
These products can help destroy the coronavirus
More
We are all taking our cleaning routines a little more seriously these days , and especially now that the majority of Canadians understand surface transmission .
Consumer Reports created a condensed list of products that can help destroy the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 .
These products have been deemed most effective by The Centre for Disease Control and Prevention .
Rubbing Alcohol
This will kill the novel coronavirus at concentrations of 70 % .
It is suggested that you first clean the area with water and detergent , then let the rubbing alcohol sit for 30 seconds .
You should then wipe the area clean .
Bleach
When cleaning with bleach , you should always wear gloves and dilute the solution -- four teaspoons of bleach to four cups of water .
Since bleach is a harsh cleaner , you should make sure it wo n’t damage the surface you are trying to clean with a little spot test .
Soap and Water
According to the Environmental Protection Agency , coronaviruses are some of the easiest types of viruses to kill -- simply just using soap will do the trick .
That is why handwashing is of such high importance right now .
Hydrogen Peroxide
This is effective at 3 % .
It is not as intense as bleach , so you do not need to dilute the solution .
In order for it to work , you should spray it on a surface , let it sit for one minute , then clean .
For a full list of products that the Government of Canada is deeming useful for killing the coronavirus , you can refer to their database .
Officials have stressed the importance of cleaning electronics like your smartphone or shared computer spaces .
Always follow manufacturer guidelines for cleaning .
If you can not find this , alcohol based wipes should be your best bet at killing any virus and not soaking the equipment .
Also , when it comes to laundry , you may want to think about cleaning out your hamper after clothes or linens that could contain the virus have sat inside .
Wash on the warmest setting and do not shake any pre - washed laundry , as this could release the virus before it heads into the machine .
Regular laundry detergent will work .
Now to the products that do not work ...
Vodka , homemade hand sanitizer , tea tree oil and vinegar .
There were some discrepancies over these more natural products , but in the end , it is better to be safe than sorry .
As for vodka , there is not enough alcohol in store bought brands , so it is better to save this for your quarantinis !
-- Thumbnail image source :
Getty Images

NMC Succumbs to Administration After Giving In to Creditors .
2020-04-09 13:45:29 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Just two years after its market value soared to more than $ 10 billion , NMC Health Plc was placed in administration by a London court as the troubled health - care provider succumbed to creditor demands .
NMC , the Middle East ’s largest hospital operator , will be run by administrators Alvarez Marsal , Judge Sebastian Prentis said via videoconference Thursday .
It ’s a boost for state - owned Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC , which is owed $ 963 million .
It had pushed for administration in a bid to get management to relinquish control .
Once the Arab world ’s top performing stock , the shares of the company founded by Indian entrepreneur Bavaguthu Raghuram Shetty plunged before trading was suspended amid allegations of fraud .
Most of NMC ’s senior management has resigned since it revealed more than $ 4 billion of undisclosed debt .
The company was also dropped from the FTSE 100 index .
“ One of the most striking things about this was that until less than four months ago this company was overtly carrying on business entirely as normal , ” Prentis said .
“ Since then , the wheel has turned and it has kept turning . ”
“ It ’s clear that something has gone very wrong with the management and oversight of this company , ” the judge said .
In a letter to the court , NMC ’s executive chairman Faisal Belhoul said the company continued to reject allegations made by Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank .
The bank said it pushed for administration because it feared that NMC would be unable to pay employees in the months to come and that the whole group would collapse .
“ If this happens , it will imperil the health of the citizens in the U.A.E. , ” Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank ’s lawyer said in a court filing .
The bank “ considers that steps must be taken now , before it is too late , to secure the company ’s financial position . ”
In 2012 , NMC became the first company from Abu Dhabi to list on the London stock exchange .
The health - care provider ’s troubles have renewed concerns about the lack of corporate governance in the U.A.E. , where both Abu Dhabi and Dubai in the past decade have transformed into two of the Middle East ’s leading financial centers .
In an emailed statement , Shetty said he was pursuing his own investigation .
“ I am extremely eager and determined to bring to light the full facts , and the whole truth , around what has transpired to all stakeholders as quickly as possible , ” he said .
Creditors turned to the London courts to force the issue .
According to court filings , Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC is owed $ 541 million , and Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC is owed $ 325 million .
Barclays Plc was owed $ 146 million .
Standard Chartered Plc , which is a lender in a further $ 250 million lending facility alongside Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank , said it would support administration if governance changes were not made .
NMC ’s new chairman had resisted creditors ’ demands until the eve of the court hearing , arguing that such a move would endanger lives as the coronavirus spreads across the U.A.E. Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank ’s move echoes that of another financial crisis in the Gulf , where a Kuwaiti fund helped precipitate the collapse of Dubai ’s marquee investment firm , Abraaj Group , by pushing for administration in court .
Meanwhile , Abu Dhabi is still grappling with the fallout of the global scandal involving Malaysian sovereign fund 1MDB .
( Updates with amounts creditors owed in 12th paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Japanese payment service provider Paidy raises $43 million from ITOCHU .
2020-04-09 13:45:29 +00:00 .
Paidy , a Japanese fintech startup that allows customers to make online purchases without credit cards , announced today that it has raised a $ 48 million Series C extension from ITOCHU .
The company says it has now raised a total of $ 281 million in equity and debt .
Its latest investment from ITOCHU , one of the largest Japanese trading companies , was equity funding .
ITOCHU previously participated in Paidy ’s Series B and C rounds , and this brings the total it has invested into the startup to $ 91 million ( the company said it did an extension round instead of moving onto a Series D so it could issue the same type of preferred shares ) .
Paidy ’s last funding announcement was in October 2019 , with investors including PayPal Ventures .
The company has now raised a total of $ 281 million in equity and debt .
The latest funding will be used to strengthen Paidy ’s balance sheet during the COVID-19 pandemic and also support the development of more " buy now pay later " services it will launch later this year .
Paidy ’s payment service allows users to make purchases online , and then pay for them each month in a consolidated bill .
The company uses proprietary technology to score creditworthiness , underwrite transactions and guarantee payment to merchants .
Since many Japanese consumers prefer not to use credit cards for online payments , Paidy ’s service can help vendors increase their conversion rates , average order values and repeat purchases .
During the pandemic , the company says usage of its service has increased since more people are buying essential items online , despite declines in spending on travel , hotels and large - ticket items ( a state of emergency was declared in Japan last week in Tokyo and six other prefectures ) .
Shuichi Kato , the executive officer and executive president of ITOCHU ’s ICT and Financial Business company , said in a statement that , " We strongly beieve that they will keep playing a critical role in our retail finance strategy as their one - of - a - kind credit examination has been creating a new type of trust , appealing to a wide range of customers .
Paidy has also proved that they are capable of implementing prompt solutions in the inevitable battles against fraud , evolving their services to the next level . "

Another 6.6 million Americans lost their job last week .
2020-04-09 12:49:51 +00:00 .
Another wave of 6.6 million American workers filed first - time unemployment claims for the week ending April 4 , bringing the cumulative total to an astonishing 16 million over the past three weeks .
For the week ending March 21 , 3.3 million people filed new unemployment claims , easily shattering the previous record set in 1982 of 695,000 .
Last week , that astounding figure doubled , as 6.6 million people filed claims for the week ending March 28 .
Thursday 's figure was at the high end of analyst estimates , which ranged from 4.5 million to 7 million .
“ So far , jobless claims look to me like the only limitation on the number of applications has been the states ’ ability to process those claims , ” said Darrell Cronk , chief investment officer of Wells Fargo Wealth and Investment Management .
The cumulative toll of the last three weeks comes as last week ’s Labor Department release showed that the economy shed 701,000 jobs in March — a figure far more negative than anticipated , although economists said it only captured a fraction of the carnage in the labor market that largely took place in the second half of the month .
America ’s stunning unemployment surge during coronavirus , visualized
Economists say the percentage of people out of work has soared since then .
“ It ’s fair to say we ’re now into the double digits , ” said Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody ’s Analytics .
How long this all could last remains an open question .
In an interview with Savannah Guthrie on the “ TODAY ” show on Wednesday , White House coronavirus response coordinator Dr. Deborah Birx said officials were evaluating whether or not to extend its recommendation that people continue social distancing beyond the current guideline of April 30 .
“ I think we ’ve got a ways to go , or several weeks of this , as states catch up and as those claims continue to come in , ” Cronk said .
While the first wave of job losses hit hardest in consumer - facing sectors such as leisure , hospitality and retail , the continued weekly losses in the millions indicated that the pain was spreading across the economy , Zandi said .
“ Now it ’s broadening out — manufacturing , construction , of course the energy sector , ” he said , along with pockets of healthcare , wholesale , professional and personal services .
Zandi predicted that the unemployment rate will climb as high as 15 percent by later this spring , a remarkable free fall for a job market at half - century lows .
“ People are so fixated on the labor market and the impairment of the labor market because it does drive what we expect for GDP contraction , ” Cronk said .
Cronk estimated that second - quarter domestic GDP will contract 22 percent on a quarter - to - quarter basis , adding that he anticipates the beginning signs of a recovery by the third quarter .
“ It still looks like minus-3 percent for the whole year , but it ’s going to be a wild ride , ” he said .

Flows to India Stock Funds Climb Despite Brutal March Selloff .
2020-04-09 11:04:38 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Inflows into Indian equity funds climbed to a one - year high in March even as the broader market witnessed a record selloff on concerns over the impact of the coronavirus pandemic .
Equity plans received 117.2 billion rupees ( $ 1.53 billion ) , according to data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India .
That ’s the highest since March 2019 and the fourth straight month of increased inflows .
The stickiness of the flows will be tested next month when the full impact of the nationwide lockdown , which began late March and may be extended , will be felt .
India ’s key equity indexes last month logged their worst declines since 2008 , as the nation ’s assets got swept up in the virus - fueled rout that erased trillions of dollars from global stock values .
“ April will likely see tepid flows both on account of fear as well as operational issues in investing for offline investors , ” said Vidya Bala , head of research and co - founder at Chennai - based Primeinvestor.in .
“ In the early stage of a correction , investors feel emboldened to average .
This trend may not continue with how the pandemic has turned out since late March . ”
India ’s policy makers are trying to cushion an economy that was slowing even before the coronavirus outbreak .
Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered a 21 - day nationwide lockdown until April 14 after the country witnessed a steady rise in cases .
More than 5,900 people have been infected in India with the death toll at 178 , according to data compiled by John Hopkins University .
Liquid Funds
The uncertainty hit liquid funds , which saw withdrawals of 1.1 trillion rupees , versus an outflow of 438.3 billion rupees in February , according to AMFI data .
This the biggest withdrawal from the category since September .
The product is used mostly by companies to park short - term cash and typically see a spike in redemption at the end of a quarter .
The withdrawals from liquid funds accounted for the bulk of the net outflow of 2.13 trillion rupees across all mutual fund segments , the data showed .
That is the biggest decline since September 2018 when defaults by the ILFS Group sparked an exodus from debt plans .
Even so , AMFI is banking on the robust liquidity from institutional investors that has helped cushion the market against large outflows sparked by global shocks in recent years .
Mutual funds and insurance firms together invested a net 555.95 billion rupees ( $ 7.3 billion ) into shares in March even as global funds yanked out a record $ 8.4 billion .
“ We expect pace of inflows into equity funds to remain robust as every dip is being used by investors to buy and the industry has been able to move most transactions online , ” said N. S Venkatesh , chief executive officer at the AMFI .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Nimitz Becomes 4th Aircraft Carrier with COVID-19 Case: Report .
2020-04-09 05:25:22 +00:00 .
Update : On Wednesday , Cdr .
John Fage , spokesman for the U.S. 3rd Fleet , said the sailor 's test is still inconclusive and no sailors aboard the Nimitz have tested positive .
" There are no confirmed positive cases of COVID-19 on board USS Nimitz at this time , " Fage said .
" Sailors that had been in close contact with the individual were also removed from the ship as a precaution and placed into quarantine .
That sailor remains off the ship . "
He added , " Regarding the second Nimitz sailor that has been reported as positive for COVID-19 , they tested positive while out of the state on leave in early March .
That sailor remains in that location and has not been to or aboard Nimitz since departing the area on leave . "
Another aircraft carrier has confirmed a case of coronavirus in a crew member , according to a news report .
Citing three U.S. defense officials , Politico reported Tuesday that a sailor on board the carrier Nimitz ( CVN 68 ) has tested positive for COVID-19 .
The sailor 's test came back positive last week after the individual exhibited symptoms on board , Politico said .
Another crew member also has coronavirus , but the member has not been working on the carrier , Politico said .
A U.S. defense official told Military.com on Tuesday that a Nimitz - based sailor , who displayed symptoms was placed into isolation in late March out of an abundance of caution , was tested twice in recent days .
However , both tests came back inconclusive .
The carrier is the fourth to reportedly have a case of the highly contagious disease among its crew .
Related : Acting SecNav 's Public Apology Was Ordered by Defense Secretary Mark Esper
The nuclear - powered aircraft carrier , based in Bremerton , Washington , has been readying for a deployment , Politico reported .
The Nimitz strike group is part of the U.S. 3rd Fleet , which coordinates with U.S. 7th Fleet to conduct missions throughout the Pacific .
The USS Theodore Roosevelt , which reported its first COVID cases on March 24 and now has more than 200 among its crew , had to be sidelined in Guam to offload thousands of sailors in an effort to manage the outbreak .
Capt .
Brett Crozier , who commanded the Roosevelt , was removed from his job after a letter he wrote about the situation on his ship was sent to people outside his chain of command last week .
Then - acting Navy Secretary Thomas Modly on Thursday fired Crozier , calling the leak of the letter -- not the letter itself -- an " uncharacteristic lack of judgment . "
Modly resigned Tuesday following a a visit to the Roosevelt to deliver a speech in which he suggested the Crozier was " too naïve or too stupid to be a commanding officer of a ship like this .
" The remarks became public and sparked major backlash , with former officials and lawmakers calling for Modly to step down .
The Roosevelt , which has more than 5,000 people onboard , joined two other carriers that had reported cases last month .
The USS Ronald Reagan , forward deployed in Japan , said two sailors on board had tested positive for COVID-19 on March 27 , according to a report from Fox News .
The Kitsap Sun reported on March 23 that a member of the USS Carl Vinson 's crew was also diagnosed with COVID-19 .
--
Gina Harkins contributed to this report .
--
Oriana Pawlyk can be reached at oriana.pawlyk@military.com .
Follow her on Twitter at @Oriana0214 .
Read more :
Get ' A Pair of Scissors : ' Army Grooming Standards Still in Effect ,
Officials Say

Coronavirus prompting NZ election rethink .
2020-04-09 05:02:56 +00:00 .
The coronavirus could yet brew a constitutional crisis in New Zealand , where the opposition have floated a 2021 election and the prime minister admits the timing of this year 's poll is under review .
New Zealand is currently headed to the polls on September 19 , the date Jacinda Ardern chose and announced back in January .
However , restrictions on mass gatherings during the country 's lockdown and uncertainty over when social isolating measures will be lifted has prompted a public airing of alternatives .
On Thursday , deputy prime minister Winston Peters called for the election to be moved to November 21 , his party 's long - time preferred date .
Opposition leader Simon Bridges then proposed a further extension to an unspecified date next year , a measure that would require an amendment to the Constitution Act .
" I do n't see much point in a November election .
If it needs to be delayed it needs to be longer than that .
It 's either an election as scheduled or frankly it 's a 2021 election , " he said .
Mr Bridges , who discussed the matter with Ms Ardern on Wednesday , said he would await the government 's decision later this month on whether to pursue the lockdown measures before deciding on chasing a 2021 poll date .
His long - time adversary Mr Peters , leader of NZ First , told AAP he " always favoured a summer election which for 130 years was the case in our country " , but was n't against a 2021 election .
" Simon could have stumbled onto something here by accident , " he said .
" We want there to be a transparent election where there is dialogue and where the people in this country hear the debate and get to make their ballot choices because they 've heard every side of the story . "
Ms Ardern has held out against moving the poll date but on Thursday said a move was now under consideration .
" At the moment we 're sticking with the date that we have ( but that ) is something we will keep under review , " she said .
On Thursday , New Zealand 's total cases dropped to a two - week low of just 29 , prompting Ms Ardern to declare Kiwis had " implemented a nationwide wall of defence " .
On April 20 , the Cabinet will meet to decide whether to lower the alert level , which could also mean the resumption of parliament after a five - week suspension prompted by COVID-19 .
Mr Peters said " If we can have parliament sitting safely then we should " , while Mr Bridges said he wanted parliament up and running " sooner rather than later " .
Ms Ardern 's Labour currently governs with the support of minority parties NZ First and the Greens , ahead of New Zealand 's most popular party , National .
The most recent polling has NZ First dropping out of parliament , leaving a slender dogfight between the left - leaning parties and National for a majority .
No public polling has been released since the outbreak of COVID-19 .

Booking Holdings Lays Out an Ominous Financial Outlook .
2020-04-08 21:07:08 +00:00 .
Could Booking Holdings potentially run out of cash in the second half of 2021 ?
If things get super bad , that ’s a possibility .
Compared to many other travel companies , Booking Holdings was in relatively good shape before the coronavirus pandemic turned the world into a lockdown pandemic , but it made a series of disclosures about dire scenarios that are chilling .
After all , at the end of 2019 , before the outbreak of coronavirus was in the headlines , Booking Holdings had $ 6.3 billion in cash and short - term equivalents on hand , and today it potentially has access to a $ 2 billion revolving credit line .
But the company noted Wednesday in a financial filing about senior notes offerings , that in the past few days its room night reservations are down 85 percent compared with a year ago .
When excluding the announced external financing and potential access to the $ 2 billion credit line , the company believes ( our emphasis ) if business conditions worsen it has enough liquidity to last only through the second half of 2021 .
But Booking Holdings added : “ We can not , however , assure you that this will be the case . ”
Booking Holdings explained that in late March Moody ’s retained Booking ’s A3 senior unsecured debt rating , but downgraded the outlook to “ negative . ”
Previously the rating was “ stable . ”
Booking noted that numerous factors could make borrowing much more difficult in the future .
The company would have to pass a financial test to access its $ 2 billion revolving credit line , and it may not be able to pass muster “ if the deterioration of our business continues . ”
the company stated .
Potential Impairments to Kayak and OpenTable
In other revelations made as part of its update on Covid-19 , Booking Holdings stated :
It will likely record a “ significant ” impairment charge , mostly tied to a carrying value of $ 2.1 billion goodwill for its Kayak and OpenTable units when Booking reports its first quarter results .
The presentation of its results for the March 31 quarter has n’t been scheduled .
Although Booking ’s first quarter results have yet to be publicized , the company said Wednesday that it expects its financial results for the second quarter , which ends June 30 , to be “ much more significantly impacted ” from coronavirus than the first quarter , when the outbreak was largely limited to China and other countries in Asia .
Booking expects coronavirus “ to have a significant adverse impact on our business for the duration of the pandemic and during the subsequent economic recovery , which could be an extensive period of time . ”
Booking ’s previously disclosed risk factors , published in its annual report February 26 , could get riskier .
Many of those risk factors could be heightened , the company said , especially as it relates to the company ’s outstanding debt .
Booking Holdings ’ somber warnings came in the context of announcing senior notes offerings , including one for $ 750 million in principal for convertible senior notes that come due in 2025 .
The company said it would use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes and to repay debt .
Subscribe to Skift newsletters for essential news about the business of travel .

Peter Kay making TV comeback for BBC's Big Night In coronavirus fundraiser .
2020-04-08 16:40:44 +00:00 .
Comedian Peter Kay will make his first television appearance in two years taking part in the BBC ’s The Big Night In charity fundraiser later this month .
Kay last appeared on TV in the two final episodes of his sitcom Car Share in May 2018 .
Children In Need and Comic Relief are joining forces for the first time for the special TV broadcast , raising money in the fight against coronavirus .
The evening will include prize giveaways , live music performances from artists at home and a series of celebrity appearances , the BBC said .
Sir Lenny Henry announced comedians Kay and Catherine Tate and singer Gary Barlow were the first stars confirmed as taking part .
Peter Kay and Gary Barlow join Coldplay to perform at charity Crisis ' " Hidden Gig " at the Royal Court Theatre on December 19 , 2010 .
( Nick Pickles / WireImage )
More
Appearing via a video stream on The One Show , Sir Lenny promised a " fantastic night " to " cheer people up in this terrible crisis " .
Latest coronavirus news , updates and advice
Live : Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world
Fact - checker : The number of COVID-19 cases in your local area
Explained : Symptoms , latest advice and how it compares to the flu
He added : " And if people of course want to donate they can give a bit of money to help all of the vulnerable , smaller charities across the country who work with people of any age and any background who need it .
"
And even if you ca n't donate just watch , it 'll cheer you up . "
46 - year - old Kay has kept a low public profile since cancelling his last stand up tour three years ago .
Peter Kay Live : Have Gags , Will Travel was scheduled to begin touring in 2018 , but he cancelled all future work , including the tour , on 13 December , 2017 , citing “ unforeseen family circumstances ” .
Money raised from The Big Night In will be split equally between Children In Need and Comic Relief to provide support to local projects and programmes across the UK , the BBC said .
Charlotte Moore , director BBC Content , said : " BBC One will bring the nation together for this special one - off live charity event .
" I would like to thank both BBC Children In Need and Comic Relief for joining forces in these unprecedented times to provide their support to local charities , projects and programmes across the whole UK ; and to all of the stars taking part in this unmissable night of entertainment when the country needs it most . "
Gary Barlow posing with Pudsey at BBC Radio 2 Weekend Wogan
In Aid Of BBC Children In Need at The Savoy Theatre on October 30 , 2011 .
( Jon Furniss / WireImage )
More Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden said the programme is a " fantastic way to channel the amazing outpouring of generosity we are seeing from the British people " .
The show will be broadcast on BBC One on 23 April between 7 - 10pm .

NSW COVID-19 restrictions could be relaxed .
2020-04-08 01:48:36 +00:00 .
The NSW premier has flagged a potential relaxation of tough social distancing restrictions as new COVID-19 infections continue to stabilise .
The state has recorded 48 new COVID-19 cases as of Wednesday , taking the state 's total to 2734 .
There are 36 people in intensive care and the death toll remains at 21 .
Premier Gladys Berejiklian on Wednesday welcomed the ongoing stabilisation and decline of new cases , but warned community transmission was still increasing .
She said that while social distancing would be necessary until a coronavirus vaccine or cure is found , restrictions are being reviewed on a month - by - month basis .
" If the advice in a couple of weeks ' time is that there might be a couple of aspects that we can tweak to provide relief to our citizens , well then we 'll take that advice , " Ms Berejiklian told reporters on Wednesday .
" But that comes with risk and I need to be very up - front about that .
" Every time you relax a restriction , more people will get sick , more people will die , and it 's a horrible situation to be in
but they 're the choices . "
The premier said the government was getting advice on what schools would look like in term two , and what business activity could look like .
She reminded people to adhere to restrictions , which are having a positive effect , as authorities keep a watchful eye on increasing community transmission .
NSW Chief Health Officer Kerry Chant said one adult and one child in a family group of seven had been confirmed to have COVID-19 , after children were photographed being transported for testing on Tuesday night .
They had been staying at the Hilton hotel in Sydney where a number of people are in quarantine after returning to Australia .
Ms Berejiklian said it was a terrible reminder " that his horrible disease can affect anyone of any age " , while noting it could have a milder impact on young people .
It comes as the first group of 288 Australians quarantined at the nearby Swissotel are released on Wednesday morning , under a police operation to ensure their departure is quick and seamless .
This group arrived in Australia on March 26 and have undertaken a mandatory 14 - day self - isolation , to protect the community from the coronavirus .
Gold Coast woman Christine Cooper told AAP she and her husband were well looked after during the " long two weeks " .
" It 's weirder getting out , " Ms Cooper said on Wednesday .
" You feel like an inmate that 's been in jail and now you 've been released . "
Graham Cooper said they were well fed through the isolation period .
" The food was as good as you could get under the circumstances and plentiful , " he said .
All are getting a letter confirming their period of isolation and are undergoing a final health check .
After Wednesday 's operation , police will plan for further departures when some 3000 Australian residents are expected to leave hotel isolation over the next week .
Meanwhile , the Ruby Princess remains docked in Port Kembla , near Wollongong , where it 's expected to remain for 10 days while 1040 crew members undergo medical assessments .
About 200 crew have shown symptoms of coronavirus .

Australian cruise ship stranded off Uruguay reports 60% on board have coronavirus .
2020-04-07 23:45:34 +00:00 .
An Australian cruise company is working to disembark a stricken Antarctic cruise ship on which around 60 % of the passengers and crew have been infected with coronavirus .
The Greg Mortimer has been anchored 20 km off the coast of Uruguay since 27 March , but authorities in the South American country had until now refused to allow passengers to disembark .
Related : ' Stranded at sea ' : cruise ships around the world are adrift as ports turn them away
On Tuesday , the ship ’s operator , Aurora Expeditions said that of 132 passengers and 85 crew , 128 people had tested positive for Covid-19 .
Most on board are understood to be Australian , although there are also citizens of New Zealand , the US and the UK .
“ We found a ship where almost everyone has been infected , ” said Karina Rando , one of 21 Uruguayan doctors dispatched to the ship .
“ We ’ve done our utmost to prevent our own infection .
Most of the passengers are well . ”
Many of those who tested positive are still asymptomatic , but could still be at risk , said Rando .
“ There are many patients over 70 years of age , some of them with other chronic conditions such as heart and lung diseases , ” she said .
“ Those patients may fall seriously ill tomorrow even if they looked well today . ”
The $ 65 m ship set out on 15 March from the Argentinian port of Ushuaia , the southernmost city in the world .
It was to have undertaken a 16 - day cruise to Antarctica and South Georgia , christened “ In Shackleton ’s Footsteps ” after the British polar explorer .
Symptoms of coronavirus started to appear soon after departure , and the ship diverted to the Uruguayan capital Montevideo .
Even the ship ’s doctor fell ill with a fever and was left unable to perform his duties .
“ We have made it clear that the ill health and the isolation of the crew is making it difficult to maintain the same standard of essential services onboard , ” Aurora Expeditions told passengers on 2nd of April .
Uruguay denied permission for the ship to dock , and also refused to allow passengers or crew to disembark .
That decision was eventually reversed at the weekend , when a Uruguayan naval vessel was dispatched to the Greg Mortimer to remove six gravely ill passengers and take them to the British Hospital in Montevideo .
On Saturday the Uruguayan navy tweeted a video of a passenger – reportedly a British woman with pneumonia in both lungs – leaping from the moving cruise ship to the military vessel to be taken to hospital in the Uruguayan capital .
“ The people on the ship are calm but they are eager to go home , ” Marcelo Girard , a doctor at a Uruguayan medical facility where two people from the cruise ship are being treated , told the AP .
Passengers from Australia and New Zealand will board an emergency flight bound for Melbourne on Thursday , Uruguayan authorities confirmed on Tuesday afternoon .
The cost per passenger is about $ 9,300 and the cruise ship operator has asked the Australian government for help with expenses .
On landing , the passengers will undergo a mandatory 14 - day quarantine .
Related : Half of Uruguay 's coronavirus cases traced to a single guest at a society party
Other passengers will have to wait longer .
“ We have been advised that European and American passengers that have tested positive to Covid-19 , unfortunately must wait until they have a negative test result after which we will be able to organise their departure via Sao Paulo and then to their final destination , ” the company said .
Uruguay has 406 confirmed cases of coronavirus and six deaths .

Trump says he never saw aide's memos that warned coronavirus could endanger millions of Americans .
2020-04-07 23:28:10 +00:00 .
WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump said Tuesday he has not seen memos in which one of his top advisers warned that a coronavirus pandemic could cost the country trillions of dollars and endanger millions of Americans , but that even if he had , it would not have changed his response to the pandemic .
Peter Navarro , the top trade and manufacturing aide to the president , laid out the warning in two memos – one on Jan. 29 and another on Feb. 23 – while Trump played down concerns about the coronavirus , according to reports from the New York Times and Axios .
Trump said he did n’t know about the memos until a couple of days ago .
“ I asked him about it a little while ago because I read something about a memo , ” Trumps said during a White House coronavirus briefing .
Trump downplayed Navarro ’s warnings , arguing that he already had started to move to shut down U.S. borders by the time the memos were written .
“ Ultimately , I did more or less what the memo said right around the time the memo came out , ” Trump said .
President Donald Trump speaks during a coronavirus task force briefing at the White House .
More
In his first memo , Navarro wrote that the lack of immune protection or an existing cure or vaccine " would leave Americans defenseless in the case of a full - blown coronavirus outbreak on U.S. soil , ” according to the Times .
“ This lack of protection elevates the risk of the coronavirus evolving into a full - blown pandemic , imperiling the lives of millions of Americans . "
The second memo , which was addressed to Trump and was unsigned but attributed to Navarro , laid the groundwork for supplemental requests from Congress , Axios reported .
“ This is NOT a time for penny - pinching or horse trading on the Hill , ” Navarro wrote in the second memo sent on Feb. 23 .
The memo also warned of an “ increasing probability of a full - blown COVID-19 pandemic that could infect as many as 100 million Americans , with a loss of life of as many as 1.2 million souls , " according to the Times .
Despite the warnings from Navarro , Trump has claimed that " nobody " could have predicted the coronavirus pandemic .
" I would view it as is something that just surprised the whole world , " he said on March 19 . "
And if people would have known about it , it could have stopped – stopped being in place .
Nobody knew there 'd be a pandemic or an epidemic of this proportion .
Nobody had ever seen anything like this before . "
During remarks on March 26 , Trump said : " Nobody would have ever thought a thing like this could have happened . "
Trump defended his remarks , telling reporters Tuesday that the number of coronavirus cases “ really did n’t build up for a while ” and that he did n’t want to cause unnecessary panic .
“ I am a cheerleader for this country , ” he said .
“ I do n’t want to create havoc and shock and everything else . ”
Even so , “ I obviously was concerned about it because I closed down our country to China , which was heavily infected , ” Trump said .
Trump announced on Jan. 31 that the U.S. would ban most foreign nationals who had been to China the two previous weeks from traveling to the United States .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Donald Trump says he never saw aide 's warning memos

Coronavirus outbreak delayed his liver transplant. Then doctors found a solution. .
2020-04-07 21:27:06 +00:00 .
Zach Branson , a Colorado man whose lifesaving transplant was put on hold last month because of the coronavirus pandemic , has received a new liver , donated by his uncle .
Doctors at UCHealth University of Colorado Hospital in Denver previously canceled the surgery — along with all other organ transplants from living donors — amid concerns that such operations would leave patients and donors vulnerable to the coronavirus .
But the hospital reversed course last week after developing the capability to test for the coronavirus in UCHealth ’s lab and get results in under four hours .
" All potential living donor transplant patients are being reviewed on a case - by - case basis , examining risks to the donor and recipient , before an appropriate plan of action is determined , ” Dan Weaver , a hospital spokesman , said in an email .
Both Branson , 33 , and his uncle , Troy , 45 , tested negative for the virus Monday morning , giving doctors the green light .
Within hours , transplant surgeons had removed a portion of Troy ’s healthy liver and implanted it in his nephew , who was born with a rare disease that caused bile to back up in his body , slowly devastating his liver .
“ Zach is doing great ! ”
his sister , Ashley , wrote in a text message Tuesday morning .
“ Surgeon said his new liver is working great . ”
Zach Branson ( Courtesy of Zach Branson )
More
Doctors had told Branson early last month that , without the transplant surgery , he might have 30 to 45 days to live .
Then , on March 13 , he received word that the hospital was postponing the operation , scheduled for March 25 , citing concerns about the coronavirus .
In the days afterward , Branson made arrangements for home hospice care — unsure whether he would need it .
“ Whatever is meant to be is going to be , ” he said at the time .
“ That ’s the way I ’m trying to approach this . ”
The coronavirus pandemic has led hospitals across the United States to cancel or postpone most elective surgeries , seriously disrupting the lives of many awaiting new organs , transplant experts said .
Doctors in some parts of the country say an inability to quickly test potential donors for the coronavirus has led them to decline viable organs , forcing some ailing patients to wait longer .
To avert the spread of the virus among vulnerable patients who must take immunosuppressive drugs to prevent rejection of their new organs , doctors have canceled most routine follow - up visits for transplant recipients .
Full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak
And in anticipation of a surge of coronavirus patients requiring beds in intensive care units , some hospitals are now performing transplant operations only for patients who are at the most dire risk of death .
That may mean delaying kidney transplants for patients who can get by on dialysis , or holding off on heart transplants for those surviving on mechanical heart pumps .
Prior to his surgery Monday , Branson said he knew he was fortunate to get another chance .
On Tuesday morning , he texted his sister from his hospital bed , where he was recovering .
“ They keep telling me I ’m the most alert and active liver recipient that they ’ve seen , ” he wrote .
“ I chalk it all up to the extended love and support from all of you . ”

U.S. Treasury liquidity on the mend, but without Fed remains fragile .
2020-04-07 20:56:01 +00:00 .
By Gertrude Chavez - Dreyfuss and Ross Kerber
NEW YORK / BOSTON ( Reuters ) -
Some measures of liquidity in the $ 17 trillion U.S. Treasury market are almost back to normal , thanks to the Federal Reserve 's giant purchases , after drying up two weeks ago at the height of the coronavirus panic , but trading conditions remain challenging .
Without the Fed 's intervention , analysts were concerned that liquidity would break down and market volatility would spike again .
Through myriad programs , the Fed has bought more than $ 1 trillion in U.S. Treasuries over the last three weeks .
" The market is still very sensitive to how much the Fed is going to buy , whether now or the next couple of weeks , " said Gennadiy Goldberg , senior rates strategist at TD Securities in New York .
" If the Fed were to come in and cut the purchase sizes significantly , then the market would once again get pretty unstable .
It 's a very tenuous type of improvement , " he added .
A key indicator that investors track is the liquidity premium of on - the - run Treasuries , or new issues , compared with off - the - runs , which are older Treasuries representing the majority of total outstanding debt , but make up only about 25 % of daily trading volume .
That premium has declined since the Fed started buying U.S. government debt , analysts said .
On - the - run Treasuries typically command a premium over off - the - runs in times of market stress .
For instance , Barclays in a research note last month said at the peak of the market panic a few weeks ago , on - the - run 30 - year bonds were trading 5 basis points higher compared to their older 30 - year counterparts even though they have not typically commanded much liquidity premium in the past .
Jim Vogel , senior rates strategist at FHN Financial in Memphis , Tennessee , said he agreed that off - the - run liquidity was better , but is not sure whether it is " enough liquidity . "
" The Fed continues to absorb an awful lot of short Treasury coupons , which probably means they think it 's all cheap and they need to continue to clean up that market in order to firm the base for more Treasury issuance and continue to improve trading conditions , " he said .
The improvement in liquidity has also been evident in bid - ask spreads on certain securities .
These had widened to as much as 200 basis points on benchmark U.S. 10 - year Treasury notes US10YT = RR on March 20 .
That spread narrowed to 6 basis points , or less , the following week , according to Refinitiv data .
As of Tuesday , bid - asks were largely 3 basis points or fewer , a typical level before the crisis .
Though there were some points where the spread spiked higher , analysts said the figures reflected more market participants , making it easier for dealers to trade and hedge risk .
That said , analysts said diminishing two - way or buy - and - sell flows have become a problem for U.S. Treasuries across the curve .
FHN 's Vogel said volume was down 40 % from the peak a few weeks ago as institutional investors looked to more attractive asset classes such as new investment - grade corporate issuances .
High frequency trading activity , which tends to constitute a significant fraction of overall active flows when there is sufficient liquidity , was also still comfortably below recent historical averages , according to JPMorgan in its latest research note .
" When interest rate volatility is high , as it is now , we tend to see a more concerted pullback in HFT activity , which is consistent with current behavior , " the U.S. bank said .
( Reporting by Gertrude Chavez - Dreyfuss in New York and Ross Kerber in Boston ;
Editing by Alden Bentley and Leslie Adler )

John Lewis pushes Joe Biden to pick a woman of color for VP .
2020-04-07 19:30:41 +00:00 .
Civil rights icon and Congressman John Lewis said Tuesday that former Vice President Joe Biden should pick a woman of color to be his running mate .
Lewis made the comments as he announced he 's formally endorsing Biden , a shot of energy for the likely Democratic presidential nominee as the primary season is currently on pause due to safety concerns related to the coronavirus pandemic .
" I think Vice President Biden should look around — it would be good to have a woman of color , " Lewis told reporters on a call when asked .
" It would be good to have a woman that looks like the rest of America : smart , gifted , a fighter , a warrior , " Lewis said , noting a woman of any race would be a good choice , " I think the time has long passed to make the White House look like the whole of America . "
At the last primary debate in March , Biden pledged to pick a woman running mate .
Lewis , 80 , announced in December he had been diagnosed with Stage Four pancreatic cancer .
" I have a few health problems now
but I hope they will not be with me forever , " Lewis said , He added that he plans to campaign for Biden .
" We need his voice and we need his leadership now more than ever before . "
Georgia postponed its scheduled March 24 primary until May 19 due to coronavirus .
Biden 's primary wins in 19 states so far are due in large part to his dominant support from black voters .
But Biden 's support among younger black voters in some states has been challenged by Sanders .
Asked what his message is to younger black voters , Lewis said , " get out there and vote like we never , ever voted before . "
This is not the first time during this campaign Lewis spoke up on Biden 's behalf .
In summer 2019 , when several Democratic presidential candidates criticized Biden for casually recounting his relationships with segregationist senators , Lewis defended Biden .
" I do n't think the remarks are offensive , " Lewis told reporters .
Biden later apologized for the remarks .
Oprah 's Book Club pick : " Hidden Valley Road " by Robert Kolker
Global Citizen announces virtual music festival " One World :
Together At Home " Surgeon General :
Coronavirus testing numbers are " a concern "

Rand Paul says he has now tested negative for the coronavirus .
2020-04-07 17:36:32 +00:00 .
Sen. Rand Paul updated Kentuckians and the national public about his health on Tuesday , more than two weeks after being diagnosed with COVID-19 .
" I appreciate all the best wishes I have received , " Paul said in an April 7 tweet .
" I have been retested and I am negative . "
Kentucky 's junior senator announced on March 22 he had tested positive , which made him the first member of the Senate to confirm having the disease .
Paul has started volunteering at TriStar Greenview Regional Hospital in Bowling Green , according to his office .
He said he is there to " assist those in my community who are in need of medical help , including coronavirus patients .
" " Together we will overcome this , " Paul said in the tweet , which featured a photo of the senator sporting a new beard .
Paul 's diagnosis sent immediate shock waves through Washington , including a statement of concern from President Donald Trump .
But Paul also faced an immediate backlash from colleagues and others after it was reported he had lunch with other lawmakers and went swimming in the Senate gym while awaiting the results .
Previously : Kentucky 's Rand Paul the first known US senator to test positive for coronavirus Sen. Rand Paul : Why I did n’t quarantine after getting tested for COVID-19
Physician Deborah Birx , who leads the White House coronavirus task force , suggested last month that Paul had not been adhering to the federal government ’s social distancing guidelines .
" If he had been following these guidelines , he would n't have been infecting others because of the social distancing , washing your hands , doing everything that we talked about , " she said .
Paul sought to be tested for the virus because of concerns about complications from surgery last year when a portion of his lung was removed .
The surgery was the result of a 2017 assault by a neighbor in Bowling Green .
The senator lashed out at critics in the days following the positive test result , saying how under the current guidelines , he would not have been tested nor quarantined .
“ Perhaps it is too much to ask that we simply have compassion for our fellow Americans who are sick or fearful of becoming so , " Paul said in a March 23 statement .
Paul , a 57 - year - old ophthalmologist , was among the many high - profile attendees at the Speed Art Museum 's " Speed Ball " fundraiser on March 7 .
It is unclear if that is where he was infected .
Joe Gerth :
Rand Paul 's me - first mentality exposed the US Senate to coronavirus
At least three others at the event — philanthropist Christy Brown , Louisville first lady Dr. Alexandra Gerassimides and Kentucky Author Forum leader Mary Moss Greenebaum — eventually tested positive for COVID-19 .
Other Kentucky elected officials attended the fundraiser , including House Budget Committee Chairman John Yarmuth and
Kentucky Gov.
Andy Beshear , who shared their negative tests results days later .
Paul 's office ignored questions from
The Courier Journal about whether he would seek testing after attending the event .
At the time , the senator 's office would say only that he did n't interact with any of the known infected individuals .
Sen. Rand Paul , R - Ky. , right , Sen. Marco Rubio , R - Fla. , left , have lunch at a Republican policy lunch on Capitol Hill in Washington , Friday , March 20 , 2020 .
Paul tested positive for the coronavirus .
( AP Photo / Susan Walsh )
More
Reach Phillip M. Bailey at pbailey@courier-journal.com or 502 - 582 - 4475 .
Follow him on Twitter at @phillipmbailey .
This article originally appeared on Louisville Courier Journal : Rand Paul coronavirus : Senator has now tested negative for COVID-19

Europe Stocks Rally With German DAX Climbing Out of Bear Market .
2020-04-07 16:23:36 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Euro - area equities flirted with a bull market on Tuesday , before paring gains in the final hours of trading .
The Euro Stoxx 50 Index closed 2.2 % higher , just shy of a 20 % advance from its March low .
Germany ’s DAX Index technically climbed out of its bear market , rising 23 % from its trough , while France ’s CAC 40 Index and Italy ’s FTSE MIB Index fell short of the milestone at the close after intraday forays into bull territory .
Traders are turning more optimistic this week as the number of coronavirus infections have slowed in several European countries , while others such as Denmark and Austria are relaxing lockdown measures .
The brisk rebound in stocks worldwide adds pressure on investors to take a call on whether to jump back in , take profits or risk losing out on a sharp recovery .
“ Well look , volatility works in both directions , ” Andre Koppers , a portfolio manager at Oberbanscheidt
Cie , said by phone .
“ We came from a really low level and have now quickly compensated for this negative exaggeration . ”
Koppers said the rebound will probably lose steam from here , but there are still good buying opportunities for long - term investors .
While dividend cuts and profit warnings keep coming , a number of companies made positive comments on Tuesday .
Danish medical - equipment firm Ambu A / S raised its sales forecast , Sweden ’s Getinge AB said it ’s increasing production of ventilators to meet demand , and Accor SA Chief Executive Officer Sebastien Bazin said a rebound for the hotel industry will happen at some point .
Still , some caution lingered .
Spain reported an increase in coronavirus cases even as the outbreak showed signs of slowing elsewhere .
The U.K. saw its highest daily rise in deaths so far , and Prime Minister Boris Johnson remains in intensive care after struggling to shake off the infection .
“ Markets are likely still underestimating how long containment measures will last , and particularly how long it will take to get back to normal afterwards , ” warned Esty Dwek , head of global market strategy at Natixis Investment Managers Solutions .
“ We are unlikely to see a general ‘ all clear ’ and a resumption in activity . ”
The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index was up 1.9 % at the close .
All 19 industry groups rose , with travel and leisure shares -- the worst hit in the rout -- leading gains .
Cyclical shares also outperformed , with carmakers , banks and miners up more than 3 % , while defensives lagged .
Every major western - European benchmark was also in the green , including Britain ’s FTSE 100 Index , up 2.2 % .
A number of sector indexes , including energy , travel leisure and autos have gained more than 20 % since the market low on March 18 .
“ If we ’ve seen the bottom , and cases do peak , and China does n’t get a second wave , then everyone goes back to work and productivity starts again and we start spending again , ” David Vickers , a senior portfolio manager at Russell Investments , said by phone .
“ Then you ’ll get pent - up demand coming onto the market .
At the same time , interest rates are low and fiscal stimulus has been thrown at you .
So there ’s a very strong chance of a very strong bounce coming out of this if the virus does indeed peter out or some kind of vaccine comes to pass . ”
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Want a Virus Disaster Loan Fast? Easy, If You’re in California .
2020-04-07 15:37:26 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg )
-- When it comes to federal aid for small businesses , U.S. states are learning a lesson already familiar to shoppers on the hunt for toilet paper : It pays to be first in line .
Over the last nine days of March , the Small Business Administration handed out 1,790 disaster - relief loans , for a total of $ 357 million , most of it for businesses disrupted by the coronavirus .
The data were disclosed April 4 on a government website .
Businesses in all parts of the country were eligible for these so - called economic injury disaster loans , but the data show most of the money went to just one state : California , which got $ 239 million .
A handful of smaller states , including Connecticut and Maine , divvied up most of the rest .
Texas , the second - most populous state , got just six loans worth less than $ 1 million dollars in all ; at least a dozen states , including Missouri , Alabama and Iowa , got nothing at all .
The disparity arose because some states were earlier than others to declare disasters , said Carol Chastang , an SBA spokeswoman , in an email .
Under the rules for these loans , the SBA began accepting applications only after a state ’s governor declared a disaster .
California , Washington , Connecticut and Maine acted earliest , and the agency authorized lending there on March 16 .
The other states were added over the next few days , with the last joining March 21 .
By then , the demand appears to have created a backlog that was n’t quickly cleared when the money started flowing on March 23 .
Even on March 31 , the latest day for which data is available , the SBA was still making more loans in Maine than in Texas , Florida and New York combined .
Technology problems may be a factor .
Business owners around the country reported having trouble completing applications on the SBA website because it crashed intermittently .
Chastang said she did n’t have information about whether the numbers are less lopsided for the first week in April .
She said the SBA office that would have that information is “ overwhelmed ” with processing loans .
Congress originally freed up enough funding for about $ 7 billion in coronavirus disaster loans , but the stimulus bill passed in late March contained additional funding for the program .
The early results serve as a reminder that a much larger SBA program -- the $ 349 billion Paycheck Protection Program , authorized in the stimulus legislation signed March 27 -- may be prone to similar short - term disparities .
That program offers forgivable loans for keeping employees on the payroll .
It does n’t require state disaster declarations .
But it does rely on banks to make the loans , and some banks are so inundated that they ’re prioritizing longtime customers over new ones .
The SBA computer system that serves lenders crashed on Monday on unprecedented volume , leading to more delays .
With many restaurants , shops and other small businesses just days away from insolvency , every day counts .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Gilead Generates Street Skepticism Ahead of Covid-19 Results .
2020-04-07 14:16:49 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Results from a study of Gilead Sciences Inc. ’s experimental Covid-19 medicine are top - of - mind for Wall Street as cases surpass 1.35 million and deaths approach 76,000 .
With a potential vaccine more than a year away , Gilead ’s antiviral remdesivir offers one of the nearest - term hopes for a treatment in the pandemic that ’s sweeping across the globe and putting many countries , including most of the U.S. , on lockdown .
Results from late - stage studies out of China are expected this month with results from U.S. trials following in May.
After the company ’s valuation surged more than $ 20 billion from late January to early March , some Wall Street analysts are cautioning there may not be much more room for shares to gain .
The stock has traded sideways since hitting a two - year high on March 6 .
“ We see a highly negatively skewed risk / reward , ” Barclays analysts led by Carter Gould warned ahead of the April data .
They rate Gilead underweight .
Barclays is assigning a 20 % chance that the two studies out of China --- one in patients with mild to moderate symptoms and another in the severely ill -- will succeed .
Even if the pair hit the mark , Gilead ’s gains could lead to a sell - off on “ the commercial realities facing remdesivir , ” the analysts said .
That could include a complex manufacturing process and the difficulties pricing and selling a drug for a global pandemic .
Shares of Gilead fell as much as 5.4 % on Tuesday , the biggest intraday drop in almost two weeks as the broader market rallied .
Covid-19 patients in the placebo - controlled studies are likely getting treated after the virus has already reached the height of its powers in the body , instead of before when a treatment could potentially be more effective , Barclays said .
If the two studies fail , Gilead shares could fall back to the low-$60 range where they traded before the crisis .
Wall Street investors have been scrambling to position themselves ahead of the data .
Gilead appeared not only as a top long pick for investors in 2020 but also among the top short picks in a JPMorgan Chase Co. buy - side survey .
Options data suggest the stock could swing 17 % in either direction by May 1 .
Bearish bets against Gilead peaked at $ 1.97 billion on March 19 , according to data from financial analytics firm S3 Partners .
The stock was ripe for a short squeeze two weeks ago but that ’s no longer the case , S3 ’s Ihor Dusaniwsky said Monday .
Gilead is still one of the top three largest short stories in the biotech sector with $ 1.77 billion , or 1.8 % of its float , shorted as of Monday , he said .
Even the bulls have doubts about the upcoming data .
Evercore ISI analyst Umer Raffat , who has an outperform rating on the stock , said he expects the study in severely ill patients “ may underwhelm , ” though he said remdesivir could help those who received the drug early enough in their course of treatment .
Optimism that Gilead has started ramping up production because it knows the medicine works is also unfounded , he said , noting management confirmed they have n’t seen results from the Chinese trials .
For antivirals , “ it is NOT about the overall trial result , ” Raffat said .
“ All that matters is being able to identify the time point post - infection until which you can initiate an antiviral and expect efficacy . ”
( Updates with shares in sixth paragraph . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Gilead Generates Street Skepticism Ahead of Covid-19 Results .
2020-04-07 13:58:02 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Results from a study of Gilead Sciences Inc. ’s experimental Covid-19 medicine are top - of - mind for Wall Street as cases surpass 1.35 million and deaths approach 76,000 .
With a potential vaccine more than a year away , Gilead ’s antiviral remdesivir offers one of the nearest - term hopes for a treatment in the pandemic that ’s sweeping across the globe and putting many countries , including most of the U.S. , on lockdown .
Results from late - stage studies out of China are expected this month with results from U.S. trials following in May.
After the company ’s valuation surged more than $ 20 billion from late January to early March , some Wall Street analysts are cautioning there may not be much more room for shares to gain .
The stock has traded sideways since hitting a two - year high on March 6 .
“ We see a highly negatively skewed risk / reward , ” Barclays analysts led by Carter Gould warned ahead of the April data .
They rate Gilead underweight .
Barclays is assigning a 20 % chance that the two studies out of China --- one in patients with mild to moderate symptoms and another in the severely ill -- will succeed .
Even if the pair hit the mark , Gilead ’s gains could lead to a sell - off on “ the commercial realities facing remdesivir , ” the analysts said .
That could include a complex manufacturing process and the difficulties pricing and selling a drug for a global pandemic .
Covid-19 patients in the placebo - controlled studies are likely getting treated after the virus has already reached the height of its powers in the body , instead of before when a treatment could potentially be more effective , Barclays said .
If the two studies fail , Gilead shares could fall back to the low-$60 range where they traded before the crisis .
Wall Street investors have been scrambling to position themselves ahead of the data .
Gilead appeared not only as a top long pick for investors in 2020 but also among the top short picks in a JPMorgan Chase Co. buy - side survey .
Options data suggest the stock could swing 17 % in either direction by May 1 .
Bearish bets against Gilead peaked at $ 1.97 billion on March 19 , according to data from financial analytics firm S3 Partners .
The stock was ripe for a short squeeze two weeks ago but that ’s no longer the case , S3 ’s Ihor Dusaniwsky said Monday .
Gilead is still one of the top three largest short stories in the biotech sector with $ 1.77 billion , or 1.8 % of its float , shorted as of Monday , he said .
Even the bulls have doubts about the upcoming data .
Evercore ISI analyst Umer Raffat , who has an outperform rating on the stock , said he expects the study in severely ill patients “ may underwhelm , ” though he said remdesivir could help those who received the drug early enough in their course of treatment .
Optimism that Gilead has started ramping up production because it knows the medicine works is also unfounded , he said , noting management confirmed they have n’t seen results from the Chinese trials .
For antivirals , “ it is NOT about the overall trial result , ” Raffat said .
“ All that matters is being able to identify the time point post - infection until which you can initiate an antiviral and expect efficacy . ”
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Coronavirus: Modi says India in for ‘long war’ as he leads national candle-lit vigil .
2020-04-07 12:04:42 +00:00 .
Narendra Modi has said India is facing a “ long war ” against coronavirus , raising the prospect of an extension of far - reaching lockdown measures due to last another week .
The Indian prime minister was addressing members of his BJP on the party ’s 40th anniversary , in what was effectively his fourth pre - recorded national video message in less than three weeks .
Mr Modi , who has faced criticism over a lockdown imposed that left millions of migrant workers stranded , said India ’s early closure of its borders and its ongoing stay - home orders “ have set an example before the world in tackling coronavirus ” .
“ India is one of the countries which understood the seriousness of this disease and waged a timely war against it .
India took several decisions and tried its best to implement them on ground , ” he said .
While the Indian government has taken some serious action and brought forward welfare payments for hundreds of millions its poorest citizens , Mr Modi ’s own addresses have been used to call for moments of public spectacle and solidarity .
On Sunday , he led citizens in a national candle - lit vigil , urging people to turn off their lights for nine minutes at 9 pm .
Those without candles could shine their mobile phone flashlights in the air , he suggested .
The display showed “ the strength and togetherness ” of India ’s 1.3 billion population , Mr Modi said on Monday , adding that the country had “ demonstrated unity and strengthened its resolve to fight Covid-19 ” .
National power grid data showed that a remarkable number of people observed the nine - minute blackout , with the country ’s overall power demand plunging as much as 26.6 per cent .
The initiative was considerably more popular in northern India , consisting of Mr Modi ’s Hindi - speaking heartlands , where demand fell almost twice as steeply as in southern states .
But even in the south , where opposition has been more fierce towards Mr Modi ’s Hindu nationalist party , many still backed the call for unity during the coronavirus crisis .
Safriz Ahamed , who lives in the southern town of Cumbum , said many in his mainly Muslim neighbourhood who lit candles on Sunday had just weeks ago protested against the government 's new citizenship laws , which critics say are unfair to Muslims .
" It 's not always a political statement , or blind hate , " he said .
" People wanted to show solidarity with a national cause yesterday , as we 're all facing a tough time amid the lockdown . ”
India ’s virus death toll rose above 100 on Monday , while total cases stand at more than 4,000 .
The tolls are rising steadily in spite of the lockdown , which began in many cities on 22 March , partly because India has been much slower than other countries in rolling out testing .
Health ministry officials are now hinting at a localised lockdown continuing past 14 April , with a report in the Indian Express pointing out that more than 80 per cent of cases have appeared in clusters in 62 districts .
Previously , ministers have rejected the suggestion that the lockdown will have to continue past the initial three weeks .
Read more
When can we really expect coronavirus to end ?
Everything you need to know on supermarket delivery slots
The dirty truth about washing your hands Which countries around the world has coronavirus spread to ?
Listen to the latest episode of The Independent Coronavirus Podcast

Tyson, JBS Closures Show Virus Hitting American Meat Production .
2020-04-07 11:59:26 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Major U.S. meat plants are starting to take more drastic measures to deal with the coronavirus pandemic , fanning concerns of supply disruptions at a time when Americans are stocking up on food .
On Monday , Tyson Foods Inc. said it halted pork processing at a plant in Iowa after more than two dozen workers tested positive for Covid-19 .
JBS SA suspended operations until April 16 at a beef plant in Pennsylvania after several managers showed symptoms .
Other producers have seen everything from walkouts to hundreds of staff quarantined .
The temporary shutdowns come as the virus spreads to rural areas that are the heart of U.S. food production .
In the early stages of the outbreak , producers opted to keep plants running when workers got sick by identifying specific areas where infected people had direct contact .
Tyson ’s meat and poultry plants are experiencing “ varying levels ” of impact to production , the company said in a statement .
More workers are failing to show up to shifts , and additional sanitation efforts to keep people safe are spurring temporary closures , Chief Executive Officer Noel White said .
In the case of the Iowa plant , hogs are being sent to other pork facilities in the region to minimize disruption .
Meanwhile , Tyson is asking federal agencies for more personal protective equipment for its workers and trying to secure supplies of face coverings , White said .
“ We ’re working hard to protect our team members during this ever - changing situation , while also ensuring we continue fulfilling our critical role of helping feed people across the country , ” he said .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Germany’s DAX Rebounds 20% From its Coronavirus Crisis Low .
2020-04-07 08:40:32 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Germany ’s benchmark DAX Index is poised to exit a bear market that began last month , after rising 20 % from last month ’s low that was spurred by worries about the coronavirus pandemic .
The export - heavy gauge , which fell as much as 40 % in the sell - off that began late February , has rebounded in recent weeks by indications that infection rates in parts of Europe may be nearing a peak and on positive signals from China , where the latest PMI figures pointed to a V - shaped economic recovery .
The DAX advanced 3.4 % as of 9:35 a.m. in Frankfurt .
“ The current bounce in equity markets is banking on a rather optimistic scenario for Covid 19 infection curves and a quick revival of global economic activity .
Hence it makes sense to see the DAX gauge to do better , ” Frederik Hildner , a portfolio manager at Salm - Salm Partner , said by phone .
“ However , not retesting the lows in the absence of major medical progress would simply be astonishing to me , ” he says .
Read more : China ’s Bounce Helps Europe Shares .
Up to a Point : Taking Stock
The DAX ’s rebound from a March 18 closing low has been led by Fresenius SE Co. KGaA , Infineon Technologies AG and Allianz SE , up 43 % , 40 % , and 39 % in the period respectively .
With recent gains , the German gauge has trimmed its 2020 decline to 21 % , in line with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index .
“ The economic impact has yet to be seen and can once again thwart the recent price recovery , ” says Andreas Lipkow , noting that the recent bounce is more technical then fundamental .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Officials criticize Georgia governor's decision to reopen beaches amid coronavirus pandemic .
2020-04-07 08:35:29 +00:00 .
Some local officials in Georgia are denouncing Gov. Brian Kemp for issuing a shelter - in - place order that upended local efforts to curb the spread of coronavirus .
Tybee Island , a small coastal city near Savannah , Georgia , that depends on tourism , closed its beaches two weeks ago amid the growing pandemic .
But the town 's decision was abruptly reversed when Kemp 's shelter - in - place order went into effect and reopened the state 's beaches .
Kemp 's executive order allows exercise , with social distancing , on the beaches .
The state 's Department of Natural Resources prohibits beachgoers from using chairs , tents and umbrellas until April 13 .
Mayor Shirley Sessions called the decision a " reckless mandate , " adding that the health of the town 's 3,100 residents , staff and visitors are now at risk .
" As the Pentagon ordered 100,000 body bags to store the corpses of Americans killed by the coronavirus , Gov. Brian Kemp dictated that Georgia beaches must reopen , and declared any decision makers who refused to follow these orders would face prison and/or fines , " she said in a statement .
" Tybee City Council and I are devastated by the sudden directives and do not support his decisions . "
Sessions , who was sworn in three months ago , noted that Tybee is not currently staffed with emergency medical services or life guards .
She said beach parking lots will remain closed and that she will pursue legal options to change Kemp 's mandate .
Kemp responded on social media saying that officers " report no issues as they patrol the beach and surrounding areas .
Beachgoers are mostly locals and complying with social distancing orders . "
Sessions said the plywood signs and wooden barricades indicating the beach is closed will likely be taken down Monday .
She pleaded with the public to stay off the beaches and encouraged people to take videos if they see people gathering too close together on the beach .
" We 're at a very precarious situation , " she said .
Several other officials have criticized the governor 's decision in local media .
Allen Booker , a county commissioner in Glynn County , told The Atlanta Journal - Constitution that the decision is " stupid and crazy at the same time . "
“ It attracts to the beach larger groups of people , young and old , and facilitates the spread of the COVID-19 virus , leading to people dying , " he told the outlet .
Savannah Mayor Van Johnson appeared on NBC Nightly News saying that the order " does not compute . "
“ We are in the middle of a worldwide pandemic , and while we are closing schools we are reopening beaches , ” he said .
Kemp had previously resisted calls to issue a statewide order for people to stay at home .
His tightening of restrictions was welcomed by health officials , but he drew criticism for his explanation .
Kemp said he was taking the step because the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was now " finding out that this virus is now transmitting before people see signs .
" Health officials have warned that people who do not appear sick could be spreading the disease since late January .
Georgia 's Department of Public Health reported 6,742 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 219 total deaths as of Sunday .
Contributing : William Cummings , USA TODAY
Follow N'dea Yancey - Bragg on Twitter : @NdeaYanceyBragg
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY :
Coronavirus : Officials clash after Georgia governor reopens beaches

Coronavirus checks: White House halts Democrats' call for more cash payments .
2020-04-07 06:28:11 +00:00 .
The Trump administration is pumping the brakes — for now — on calls for the Treasury Department to issue a second round of checks of up to $ 1,200 to American taxpayers to mitigate economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic .
The administration 's position puts it at odds with Democrats in Congress , who have been eager to begin negotiating a fourth bill aimed at economic " recovery , " but is in lockstep with the argument from House and Senate Republicans that the government should first see how effective the $ 2.2trn " phase three " coronavirus stimulus package passed in late March is before authorising more direct cash payments .
" Our job is to execute what we 've got , " Larry Kudlow , the president 's top economic adviser , told reporters Monday .
" You 've got assistance going out to 175 m people .
I keep using that stat only because for somebody like me , who 's been around a while , it 's unbelievable : government assistance , 175 m people , " Mr Kudlow said .
" Let 's see what happens . "
Democrats have been advocating for a second round of stimulus checks since before Mr Trump even signed the first bill into law authorizing the initial round of payments .
" I do n't think we 've seen the end of direct payments , " Speaker Nancy Pelosi said last month after wrapping negotiations with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Senate Republicans .
Ms Pelosi said at that time that she would continue pushing in the next coronavirus response bill talks for checks for taxpayers worth up to $ 1,500 , House Democrats ' initial proposal , which was whittled down to the eventual $ 1,200 mark .
The speaker reaffirmed her position in a ' Dear Colleague ' letter to House Democrats Sunday , saying the next bill " must go further in assisting small businesses including farmers , extending and strengthening unemployment benefits and giving families additional direct payments . "
There already are signs of increasing friction between how Republicans and Democrats view the efficiency with which the government is rolling out checks from the $ 2.2trn bill , the largest economic relief package in US history .
" I think we 're doing OK , frankly .
I know there are always a few glitches
but I 'd give it an ' A , ' " Mr Kudlow told reporters Monday of the Treasury Department 's schedule for getting direct payments into American taxpayers ' bank accounts .
" You might not agree , but whatever .
And , if we need more , we 'll ask for more , but day at a time , week at a time — let 's see how this works , " Mr Kudlow said .
Meanwhile , House Ways and Means Committee Democrats circulated a memo to lawmakers last week estimating millions of Americans might not get their $ 1,200 for months .
While the roughly 60 m taxpayers whose direct deposit information is on file with the Treasury Department will receive their checks electronically beginning next week , the rest must be cut and mailed manually .
The Ways and Means Democrats estimate the Treasury Department has the capacity to cut and mail about 5 m checks per week , meaning the last payments may not arrive in some Americans ' mailboxes until September .
Read more US coronavirus death toll tops 10,000- live
One - day - old baby dies of coronavirus complications in Louisiana 80,000 medical workers apply to help run pop - up coronavirus facilities
Trump aide pushed into limelight clashing with coronavirus task force
Coronavirus : American children show milder symptoms than adults

Three Charts Showing Emerging Positives for Indonesian Rupiah .
2020-04-07 01:43:04 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Indonesia ’s rupiah has been one of the biggest losers in Asian currencies from the coronavirus sell - off in risk assets -- but there are signs the currency is set to strengthen later this year .
A gauge of one - month volatility has climbed above the 12 - month indicator , indicating that uncertainty is likely to ease over the longer term .
At the same time , while spreads on non - deliverable forwards have risen , they have done so less than in previous sell - offs .
Thirdly , the latest forecasts from analysts show they are expecting rupiah gains in the second half of the year .
Indonesia ’s currency , which has been seen as a proxy for emerging - market sentiment , has faced heavy selling in recent weeks as the deadly pandemic has spread around the world .
The rupiah has tumbled more than 15 % this year even though the government has unveiled $ 25 billion of fiscal stimulus , temporarily scrapped a cap on the budget deficit and beefed up the central bank ’s powers to intervene in the currency and bond markets .
The following charts show why there may be some light at the end of the tunnel : An index of dollar - rupiah volatility over the next month based on options has jumped above a similar gauge covering the next 12 months .
Under normal circumstances , longer - maturity options have a higher volatility due to the greater uncertainty embedded over a longer time horizon .
This reversal , which took place in early March , indicates traders believe the current heightened volatility will ease through the coming year .
Lower volatility will be a positive for the rupiah , as it helps encourage long - term investments in the currency and also enhances the attraction of carry trades .
The spread between one - month and 12 - month dollar - rupiah non - deliverable forwards widened to as much as 1,051 basis points in late March as the coronavirus emergency intensified .
This signals an increase in bearish bets over a 12 - month time horizon .
Nonetheless , the spread is still well below those of previous risk - off episodes .
Following the shock devaluation of the yuan in 2015 , the spread jumped as high as 1,129 , while it climbed to 1,724 after the election of U.S. President Donald Trump in November 2016 .
The relatively contained reaction this time round , at least so far , suggests the market is n’t expecting pressure on the rupiah to drag on into next year .
The shockwaves of selling that have reverberated around financial markets have meant many analyst forecasts have been thrown out the window .
The very latest predictions though , should start to factor in the impact of the coronavirus .
What ’s notable about this is that the majority predict the rupiah to strengthen during the second half of the year .
Bank Julius Baer Co. predicts the currency will appreciate to 15,840 per dollar by year - end from its level of about 16,400 on Monday .
Morgan Stanley expects it to rise to 14,100 and Nomura Bank International is tipping 13,300 .
All of these predictions are from March 26 or later .
The bullish forecasts are in line with Bank Indonesia ’s own estimate announced last week that the rupiah should strengthen to 15,000 per dollar by the end of 2020 .
All this is not to say the rupiah is out of the woods just yet .
There could certainly be more selling in coming weeks and months as the crisis develops .
At the same time though , the picture is far from being uniformly bleak .
NOTE : Marcus Wong is an EM macro strategist , who writes for Bloomberg .
The observations he makes are his own and not intended as investment advice
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Buffett Pulls Back on Airline Stocks, But Don't Fret ... Yet .
2020-04-06 19:34:33 +00:00 .
Berkshire Hathaway ( BRK.B ) chief Warren Buffett embraced airline stocks in a big way back in 2016 , added to his holdings in February and said in March that he " wo n't be selling airline stocks " even as the industry reeled under the coronavirus - led collapse in air travel .
And then Warren Buffett up and sold some airline stocks .
On Friday , April 3 , investors learned through regulatory disclosures that Berkshire had ditched 13 million shares of Delta Air Lines ( DAL , $ 22.48 ) and 2.3 million shares of Southwest Airlines ( LUV , $ 30.54 ) .
This revelation came earlier than the mid - May release of Berkshire 's Form 13F because the firm held 10%-plus stakes in Delta and Southwest , mandating Buffett 's holding company immediately disclose any material changes to those positions .
Berkshire also owns stakes in United Airlines ( UAL , $ 22.89 ) and American Airlines ( AAL , $ 9.39 ) , but because those stakes are less than 10 % , we likely wo n't find out about any moves in those holdings until the May 13F release .
Berkshire 's Smaller Airline Stakes
Berkshire cut its DAL holdings by 18 % .
That 's a substantial pullback but hardly a full - scale dumping .
Berkshire 's remaining stake of almost 59 million shares was worth about $ 1.3 billion as of April 3 .
And , importantly , BRK.B remains Delta 's largest shareholder with 9.2 % of the company 's shares outstanding .
It 's possible that Buffett pared the DAL stake only to get below the 10 % ownership threshold that would trigger regulatory headaches , but he nor anyone else from Berkshire has commented on the sale .
As for LUV , Berkshire pared its stake by just 4 % .
The holding company still owns more than 51 million shares worth about $ 1.6 billion .
And BRK.B remains Southwest 's largest shareholder with 9.9 % of the airline 's shares outstanding .
Again , it 's possible Berkshire trimmed its LUV stake to stay on the right side of the 10 % ownership threshold .
It 's understandable if the Delta divestiture in particular left some investors scratching their heads .
As recently as late February , Berkshire bought another 976,507 Delta shares .
And then in an interview with Yahoo Finance on March 13 , Buffett stated categorically , " I wo n't be selling airline stocks . "
But then he did .
Buffett made no comment as to why he sold , which is typical , as he rarely comments on changes to Berkshire 's portfolio .
Why Did Buffett Make the About - Face ?
It 's true that much has changed in the weeks since Buffett said he was standing pat .
DAL stock has tumbled 41 % since March 13 and is down 62 % since the bull market top of Feb. 19 .
LUV has lost 26 % since March 13 and cratered 47 % since Feb. 19 .
The SP 500 is off 26 % since its mid - February peak .
It 's also the case that elite investors admit when they 're wrong and act accordingly .
Perhaps Buffett is just taking his own advice : " The most important thing to do if you find yourself in a hole is to stop digging . "
But a little perspective is in order , too .
Berkshire remains the No . 1 and No . 2 shareholder in DAL and LUV , respectively .
The two airlines combined represent about 1.7 % of Berkshire Hathaway 's equity portfolio .
And , for good measure , Buffett 's fund still has 82 % of the Delta stake it reported in February , and 96 % of the Southwest stake .
It goes without saying that the market will be following Buffett 's moves in the airline sector even more closely than usual .
But as disheartening as it might be to see Buffett sell these shares , it tells us nothing conclusive .
Berkshire Hathaway remains very much involved in the air carrier industry .
Uncle Warren has n't pulled the ripcord .
At least not yet .
EDITOR 'S PICKS Copyright 2020
The Kiplinger Washington Editors

Jamie Dimon Sees ‘Bad Recession’ and Echoes of 2008 Crisis Ahead .
2020-04-06 11:55:45 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) -- Jamie Dimon expects fallout from the coronavirus pandemic to include a major economic downturn and stress similar to the crisis that nearly brought down the U.S. financial system in 2008 .
“ At a minimum , we assume that it will include a bad recession combined with some kind of financial stress similar to the global financial crisis of 2008 , ” the chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase Co. said Monday in his annual letter to shareholders .
“ Our bank can not be immune to the effects of this kind of stress . ”
The 23 - page letter was his shortest since March 2008 , and came less than a week after Dimon told staff he ’d returned to work after undergoing emergency heart surgery .
It was his first public commentary about the coronavirus ’s impact since the bank ’s investor day on Feb. 25 .
At the time , the virus still seemed a distant threat , with fewer than 60 cases in the U.S. and none in New York .
Dimon , the only current CEO who steered a major U.S. bank through the financial crisis , said JPMorgan is “ unlikely ” to cut its dividend in response to the current situation .
Such a move would only result from “ extreme prudence , ” he said .
Throughout the letter , Dimon outlined initiatives the firm is taking to support its employees , businesses and the community but refrained from offering long opinions about public policy the way he has in previous missives .
Dimon , 64 , has become a spokesman for Wall Street thanks to his frequent public appearances , outspoken nature and nearly 15 - year tenure at the biggest and most profitable bank in America .
His absence while he was recovering from surgery was felt across the industry as policy makers grappled with dire warnings about the economic effects of the pandemic and governments stepped up efforts to keep millions of people at home in an effort to stem the spread of the highly contagious virus .
Up until last year , the annual missives had gradually gotten longer , more than tripling in length since Dimon took over as CEO of JPMorgan at the end of 2005 .
The CEO writes the letters himself but drafts are reviewed and edited by the bank ’s legal , accounting , compliance , public relations and government affairs teams before they ’re published .
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Maria Sharapova shares phone number with fans in extraordinary virus move .
2020-04-06 11:04:04 +00:00 .
Maria Sharapova has shared her phone number on social media in an attempt to connect with fans during the coronavirus pandemic .
The 32 - year - old announced her retirement from tennis in February and apparently has a bit of extra time on her hands .
‘ SUFFERING ’ :
Serena Williams caught in major Margaret Court drama ‘ ARE YOU SERIOUS ’ :
Bouchard cops heat over ' social - distancing ' pic
The five - time grand slam champion took to Twitter on Friday with a message for her fans during the unprecedented global crisis .
“ Not only did I just get a 310 number ( hello cool cats ) but I ’m sharing it with you — Text me !
For real , ” she wrote on Twitter alongside a video .
“ Tell me how you ’re doing , ask me questions , or just say hello .
Any great recipes welcome too . ”
In the video she explains her rationale .
“ I ’ve been trying to find a way to be in touch with all of you because last week I did a really fun QA on a video conference with 150 of you , ” she says .
“ I wanted more .
A big part of that is because we ’re all in this social distancing together , so I want you to text me what you think .
“ Text me and wait to get a response . ”
Needless to say she was flooded with replies and the video had been watched 2.5 million times on Monday afternoon .
Former American player Mardy Fish even responded .
“ Sheesh Maria , I ’m married .
Keep it chill , ” he wrote .
Unprecedented times amid tennis shutdown
Two major tennis tournaments have been cancelled or postponed because of the coronavirus pandemic .
But not the US Open .
On March 17 , the French Open was postponed until late - September and on Thursday Wimbledon was cancelled as the WTA and ATP postponed their tours until at least July 13 .
The United States Tennis Association , however , said it does not plan to cancel or reschedule the grand slam , which is pencilled in for August 24 to September 13 .
Maria Sharapova in action at the Australian Open in January .
( Photo by TPN / Getty Images )
More
“ At this time , the USTA still plans to host the US Open as scheduled , and we continue to hone plans to stage the tournament , ” the USTA said via a statement .
“ The USTA is carefully monitoring the rapidly - changing environment surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic , and is preparing for all contingencies . ”
The grounds of the Billie Jean King Tennis Centre , in Flushing Meadows in Queens - where the US Tennis Championship has been held since 1978 - are currently being outfitted to hold temporary hospitals .
Queens , one of the hardest hit areas by COVID-19 in New York , has been struggling to slow the spread of the virus and treat those affected .
with AAP

Peugeot parent secures further 3 billion euros of loans .
2020-04-06 09:49:41 +00:00 .
By Sudip Kar - Gupta and Dominique Vidalon PARIS ( Reuters ) - Peugeot - owner PSA said on Monday it had secured a further 3 billion euros ( $ 3.3 billion ) of loans , strengthening its financial position in the wake of the hit to the global automotive industry from the coronavirus crisis .
Carmakers worldwide have been badly affected by the health crisis , first as production stalled in China , where the virus originated , and now as it spreads in Europe , where some governments have ordered unprecedented lockdowns to contain it .
Last month agency Moody 's placed the credit ratings of seven European auto makers including PSA and rival Renault on review for downgrade , citing the coronavirus crisis .
The latest syndicated loans come on top of an existing 3 billion euros worth of undrawn credit lines .
They have an initial maturity of 12 months , with two optional three - month extensions , the French group added .
It did not say which banks were involved .
" This operation reinforces our ability to face up to this exceptional situation and prepare the future , " said PSA Chief Financial Officer Philippe de Rovira .
" It also proves the confidence of our partner banks in the financial strength and recognized resilience of Groupe PSA . "
By 0910 GMT , PSA shares were up 8.3 percent amid a broader global equity market rally .
Last month the French government told PSA and Renault they were entitled to help such as guarantees on loans and leeway on bills as it seeks to help companies cope with the fallout from the health crisis .
PSA did not say if its latest loans had attracted any state support .
PSA , which also makes the Citroen marque , has suspended output in all its European plants until March 27 and has not given a target date for restarting production .
PSA , which is in the midst of merging with Fiat Chrysler , has also postponed its annual shareholders ' meeting to June 25 from May 14 .
Separately , shares in Renault rose more than 8 % after top executives from the Renault / Nissan alliance told the Wall Street Journal they intend to announce their programme for the next three years in mid - May and that billions of dollars in savings are planned .
( Reporting by Sudip Kar - Gupta and Dominique Vidalon ;
Editing by Kirsten Donovan and David Holmes )

Russian Sokol crude sinks to record discount as demand slumps -sources .
2020-04-06 07:58:20 +00:00 .
By Shu Zhang
SINGAPORE ( Reuters ) - Russia 's Sokol crude , which yields more middle distillates like jet fuel and gasoil from refining , has slumped to a record spot discount in the Asia market , two trade sources said on Monday , as fuel demand takes a hit from the coronavirus pandemic .
Indian oil explorer ONGC Videsh sold one 700,000 - barrel cargo of Russian Sokol crude for loading between June 2 - 8 at a discount of around $ 8 a barrel to Dubai quotes via a spot tender that was closed and awarded last Friday , likely to a trader , the sources said .
That is the lowest price differential ever recorded , according to Refinitiv Eikon assessments starting from 2011 .
In comparison , last month ONGC sold a Sokol crude cargo loading May 22 - 28 at a spot premium of around $ 3.20 a barrel to Dubai quotes to a trader , sources told Reuters at the time .
Physical crude prices have been hampered globally amid oversupply as refiners in Asia , Europe and the Americas cut runs or shut down plants .
Vietnam - Malaysia 's medium sweet grade Bunga Kekwa crude also slipped from premiums to a spot discount of around $ 5 to dated Brent in a tender closed on March 30 for a 300,000 - barrel cargo loading May 31 - June 1 , sources said last week .
Transport fuel demand has taken a beating from stringent government lockdown measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 .
The measures have disrupted the normal daily activities of some 3 billion people .
Asian refining profit margins - known as cracks - for jet fuel and 10 ppm gasoil slumped to record lows on Friday .
Oil traders are awaiting for a meeting to be held later this week among some of the world 's top producers - including Saudi Arabia and Russia - to discuss output cuts that could partly alleviate oversupply in global markets , trade sources told Reuters on Monday .
[ O / R ] ( Reporting By Shu Zhang ; Editing by Christian Schmollinger and Tom Hogue )

Four Citadel Portfolio Heads Exit After Market Dives .
2020-04-06 03:26:50 +00:00 .
( Bloomberg ) --
Four equity portfolio managers at Ken Griffin ’s Citadel hedge fund left the firm last week , after one of the most volatile months for stocks on record .
The four managers are Chris Connor , who ran a technology portfolio ; Tio Charbaghi and Steve Bergman , who both ran baskets of industrial stocks ; and Chip Fortson , who ran a book of financial stocks , according to people familiar with the firm .
The managers , who all worked in the firm ’s Global Equities group , either did n’t return emails or texts requesting comment , or could n’t be reached for comment .
That unit got a new head at the beginning of March , when Justin Lubell took on the role .
He previously worked for Steve Cohen ’s Point72 Asset Management .
Citadel had been among firms that were struggling in the first half of March as the coronavirus pandemic virtually halted the global economy and seized up markets from stocks to bonds to commodities .
Its flagship funds had been down 5.3 % through March 20 before things turned around , Bloomberg previously reported .
Then , the unprecedented moves by the Federal Reserve and the promise of a $ 2 trillion economic stimulus package boosted markets , giving funds a reprieve .
The flagship funds ended March up 1.2 % , bringing year - to - date performance to almost 6 % .
All five of the strategies that feed into them were flat or positive over the period .
Citadel has continued hiring .
Richard Falk - Wallace , a natural resources portfolio manager who previously worked at Viking Global Investors , joined Citadel ’s Surveyor unit last week .
Jake Koury , a portfolio manager covering consumer stocks who most recently worked at Balyasny Asset Management , will be joining the firm ’s Global Equities group next month .
A spokesperson for Citadel declined to comment .
( Corrects timing in headline , first and third paragraphs . )
For more articles like this , please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source .
© 2020 Bloomberg L.P.

Americans play the 'waiting game' after last passenger plane from Moscow canceled .
2020-04-06 02:10:08 +00:00 .
A teacher whose father is suffering from cancer is one of scores of American citizens trapped in Russia after the last passenger flight to the U.S. was canceled amid the coronavirus pandemic .
Grace Mitchell , 26 , told NBC News that she had had no plans to leave her home in Rostov - on - Don in southern Russia until she got a phone call from her mother saying her father ’s cancer had taken a turn for the worse .
" All we could do , really , was try to get the last flight out of Russia , because if I do n't get a flight soon , then I probably wo n't see my dad ever again , " Mitchell said .
IMAGE : Grace Mitchell ( Grace Mitchell )
More
So on Friday , along with hundreds of other passengers , Mitchell , an English teacher from Washington state , boarded Aeroflot Flight 102 at Moscow 's Sheremetyevo International Airport , thinking it was her last chance to get home .
It was one of the few flights available out of Russia , as many had been canceled when the country 's government restricted international travel to stop the spread of COVID-19 .
The U.S. Embassy in Moscow had also warned that the flight , which was scheduled to go from Moscow to New York on Friday , could be the last one for the month .
Intensive care nurse Elena Salomatina , 40 , was also hoping to fly home so she could help her colleagues at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington , D.C. , treat the influx of patients infected with COVID-19 .
She said two flights had already canceled by the time she boarded Flight 102 , which was then canceled before takeoff .
" I feel so guilty just sitting here , " she said .
Full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak
Aeroflot said later in a statement that the flight was canceled " following a decision by Russian aviation authorities to suspend all permits previously granted to carriers for charter flights to repatriate Russian and CIS citizens . "
" CIS " stands for Commonwealth of Independent States , the regional union of Russia and 11 former Soviet republics .
NBC News has asked the Russian government for comment .
The U.S. Embassy later sent an alert saying it was organizing a charter flight from Moscow this week with the permission of the Russian government .
" They want us to sign up for the charter flight and wait for emails , " Mitchell said .
" So it 's just like a waiting game .
That 's what it feels like . "
Until then , passengers have had to seek lodging and wait for information .
Some are staying in hotels , but others have simply stayed in the airport .
Marina Ivanova , 48 , said she remained in the airport 's transfer zone because she did not have the money to spend on a hotel .
Ivanova , a permanent resident in the U.S. , added that she was hoping to return home to Los Angeles .
Passengers said that as they await news , they have been using social media to stay connected and up to date with the latest information .
" People who live near Moscow have been offering their apartments and stuff , which is really cool , " Mitchell said .
Salomatina added that it had been therapeutic to connect with other passengers .
" We met in the airport , actually , and it was like therapy , " she said .
" They 're very supportive .
We support each other , and we keep our hopes up . "
Download the NBC News app for full coverage and alerts about the coronavirus outbreak
As of Friday , more than 22,000 Americans in foreign countries were still looking to the U.S. government for help getting back home , according to State Department estimates .
President Donald Trump recently announced that the department had coordinated the return of more than 40,000 Americans from 75 countries .
" Our hope is that the American government will help us , " Salomatina said .
" That 's what we 're relying on . "

